
Disclaimer J. K. Rowling owns Harry Potter, and no one owns the
methods of rationality.
This fic is widely considered to have really hit its stride
starting at around Chapter 5. If you still don't like it after
Chapter 10, give up.
Please visit HPMOR DOT COM for
* Easy email notification system, RSS feed, and Twitter feed for
new chapters;
* Current Author's Notes and progress updates;
* Lovely fanmade bookstyle PDF version;
* Adfree mirror of the text;
* ePUB and MOBI etexts;
* Ongoing podcast of the story;
* Fan art in vast quantities;
* Cameo list (characters named after fan artists);
* Fanfanfiction of this fanfiction;
* Fan music, songs, and animations;
* Fan translations;
* The OKCupid keyword for HPMOR readers;
* Links to TV Tropes page and discussion forum;
* Trigger warnings page (warnings about possible traumatic
associations for some readers; to avoid spoilers for most readers,
there are no warnings inside the main story);
* How to learn everything the main character knows;
* Open job positions at a related nonprofit;
* And ever so much more.
Reviews make me happy. You can leave reviews on any chapter, no
login required, and there's no need to finish reading it all before
you start reviewing chapters  but do please leave at most
one review per chapter.
This is not a strict singlepointofdeparture fic 
there exists a primary point of departure, at some point in the
past, but also other alterations. The best term I've heard for this
fic is "parallel universe".
The text contains many clues obvious clues, notsoobvious
clues, truly obscure hints which I was shocked to see some readers
successfully decode, and massive evidence left out in plain sight.
This is a rationalist story; its mysteries are solvable, and meant
to be solved.
The pacing of the story is that of serial fiction, i.e., that of
a TV show running for a predetermined number of seasons, whose
episodes are individually plotted but with an overall arc building
to a final conclusion.
The story has been corrected to British English up to Ch. 17,
and further Britpicking is currently in progress (see the /HPMOR
subreddit).
All science mentioned is real science. But please keep in mind
that, beyond the realm of science, the views of the characters may
not be those of the author. Not everything the protagonist does is
a lesson in wisdom, and advice offered by darker characters may be
untrustworthy or dangerously doubleedged.

Beneath the moonlight glints a tiny fragment of silver, a
fraction of a line...
(black robes, falling)
...blood spills out in litres, and someone screams a
word.

Every inch of wall space is covered by a bookcase. Each bookcase
has six shelves, going almost to the ceiling. Some bookshelves are
stacked to the brim with hardback books science, maths, history,
and everything else. Other shelves have two layers of paperback
science fiction, with the back layer of books propped up on old
tissue boxes or lengths of wood, so that you can see the back layer
of books above the books in front. And it still isn't enough. Books
are overflowing onto the tables and the sofas and making little
heaps under the windows.
This is the livingroom of the house occupied by the eminent
Professor Michael VerresEvans, and his wife, Mrs. Petunia
EvansVerres, and their adopted son, Harry James
PotterEvansVerres.
There is a letter lying on the livingroom table, and an
unstamped envelope of yellowish parchment, addressed to Mr. H.
Potter in emeraldgreen ink.
The Professor and his wife are speaking sharply at each other,
but they are not shouting. The Professor considers shouting to be
uncivilised.
"You're joking," Michael said to Petunia. His tone indicated
that he was very much afraid that she was serious.
"My sister was a witch," Petunia repeated. She looked
frightened, but stood her ground. "Her husband was a wizard."
"This is absurd!" Michael said sharply. "They were at our
wedding  they visited for Christmas "
"I told them you weren't to know," Petunia whispered. "But it's
true. I've seen things "
The Professor rolled his eyes. "Dear, I understand that you're
not familiar with the sceptical literature. You may not realise how
easy it is for a trained magician to fake the seemingly impossible.
Remember how I taught Harry to bend spoons? If it seemed like they
could always guess what you were thinking, that's called cold
reading "
"It wasn't bending spoons "
"What was it, then?"
Petunia bit her lip. "I can't just tell you. You'll think I'm "
She swallowed. "Listen. Michael. I wasn't  always like this " She
gestured at herself, as though to indicate her lithe form. "Lily
did this. Because I  because I begged her. For years, I
begged her. Lily had always been prettier than me, and
I'd... been mean to her, because of that, and then she got
magic, can you imagine how I felt? And I begged
her to use some of that magic on me so that I could be pretty too,
even if I couldn't have her magic, at least I could be pretty."
Tears were gathering in Petunia's eyes.
"And Lily would tell me no, and make up the most ridiculous
excuses, like the world would end if she were nice to her sister,
or a centaur told her not to  the most ridiculous things, and I
hated her for it. And when I had just graduated from university, I
was going out with this boy, Vernon Dursley, he was fat and he was
the only boy who would talk to me. And he said he wanted children,
and that his first son would be named Dudley. And I thought to
myself, what kind of parent names their child Dudley
Dursley? It was like I saw my whole future life stretching out
in front of me, and I couldn't stand it. And I wrote to my sister
and told her that if she didn't help me I'd rather just "
Petunia stopped.
"Anyway," Petunia said, her voice small, "she gave in. She told
me it was dangerous, and I said I didn't care any more, and I drank
this potion and I was sick for weeks, but when I got better my skin
cleared up and I finally filled out and... I was beautiful, people
were nice to me," her voice broke, "and after that I
couldn't hate my sister any more, especially when I learned what
her magic brought her in the end "
"Darling," Michael said gently, "you got sick, you gained some
weight while resting in bed, and your skin cleared up on its own.
Or being sick made you change your diet "
"She was a witch," Petunia repeated. "I saw it."
"Petunia," Michael said. The annoyance was creeping into his
voice. "You know that can't be true. Do I really have to
explain why?"
Petunia wrung her hands. She seemed to be on the verge of tears.
"My love, I know I can't win arguments with you, but please, you
have to trust me on this "
"Dad! Mum!"
The two of them stopped and looked at Harry as though they'd
forgotten there was a third person in the room.
Harry took a deep breath. "Mum, your parents didn't
have magic, did they?"
"No," Petunia said, looking puzzled.
"Then no one in your family knew about magic when Lily got her
letter. How did they get convinced?"
"Ah..." Petunia said. "They didn't just send a letter. They sent
a professor from Hogwarts. He " Petunia's eyes flicked to Michael.
"He showed us some magic."
"Then you don't have to fight over this," Harry said firmly.
Hoping against hope that this time, just this once, they would
listen to him. "If it's true, we can just get a Hogwarts professor
here and see the magic for ourselves, and Dad will admit that it's
true. And if not, then Mum will admit that it's false. That's what
the experimental method is for, so that we don't have to resolve
things just by arguing."
The Professor turned and looked down at him, dismissive as
usual. "Oh, come now, Harry. Really, magic? I thought
you'd know better than to take this seriously, son, even
if you're only ten. Magic is just about the most unscientific thing
there is!"
Harry's mouth twisted bitterly. He was treated well, probably
better than most genetic fathers treated their own children. Harry
had been sent to the best primary schools  and when that didn't
work out, he was provided with tutors from the endless pool of
starving students. Always Harry had been encouraged to study
whatever caught his attention, bought all the books that caught his
fancy, sponsored in whatever maths or science competitions he
entered. He was given anything reasonable that he wanted, except,
maybe, the slightest shred of respect. A Doctor teaching
biochemistry at Oxford could hardly be expected to listen to the
advice of a little boy. You would listen to Show Interest, of
course; that's what a Good Parent would do, and so, if you
conceived of yourself as a Good Parent, you would do it. But take a
tenyearold seriously? Hardly.
Sometimes Harry wanted to scream at his father.
"Mum," Harry said. "If you want to win this argument with Dad,
look in chapter two of the first book of the Feynman Lectures on
Physics. There's a quote there about how philosophers say a great
deal about what science absolutely requires, and it is all wrong,
because the only rule in science is that the final arbiter is
observation  that you just have to look at the world and report
what you see. Um... off the top of my head I can't think of where
to find something about how it's an ideal of science to settle
things by experiment instead of arguments "
His mother looked down at him and smiled. "Thank you, Harry. But
" her head rose back up to stare at her husband. "I don't want to
win an argument with your father. I want my husband to, to listen
to his wife who loves him, and trust her just this once "
Harry closed his eyes briefly. Hopeless. Both of his
parents were just hopeless.
Now his parents were getting into one of those
arguments again, one where his mother tried to make his father feel
guilty, and his father tried to make his mother feel stupid.
"I'm going to go to my room," Harry announced. His voice
trembled a little. "Please try not to fight too much about this,
Mum, Dad, we'll know soon enough how it comes out, right?"
"Of course, Harry," said his father, and his mother gave him a
reassuring kiss, and then they went on fighting while Harry climbed
the stairs to his bedroom.
He shut the door behind him and tried to think.
The funny thing was, he should have agreed with Dad. No
one had ever seen any evidence of magic, and according to Mum,
there was a whole magical world out there. How could anyone keep
something like that a secret? More magic? That seemed like a rather
suspicious sort of excuse.
It should have been a clean case for Mum joking, lying or being
insane, in ascending order of awfulness. If Mum had sent the letter
herself, that would explain how it arrived at the letterbox without
a stamp. A little insanity was far, far less improbable than the
universe really working like that.
Except that some part of Harry was utterly convinced that magic
was real, and had been since the instant he saw the putative letter
from the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Harry rubbed his forehead, grimacing. Don't believe
everything you think, one of his books had said.
But this bizarre certainty... Harry was finding himself just
expecting that, yes, a Hogwarts professor would show up
and wave a wand and magic would come out. The strange certainty was
making no effort to guard itself against falsification  wasn't
making excuses in advance for why there wouldn't be a professor, or
the professor would only be able to bend spoons.
Where do you come from, strange little prediction?
Harry directed the thought at his brain. Why do I believe what
I believe?
Usually Harry was pretty good at answering that question, but in
this particular case, he had no clue what his brain was
thinking.
Harry mentally shrugged. A flat metal plate on a door affords
pushing, and a handle on a door affords pulling, and the thing to
do with a testable hypothesis is to go and test it.
He took a piece of lined paper from his desk, and started
writing.
Dear Deputy Headmistress
Harry paused, reflecting; then discarded the paper for another,
tapping another millimetre of graphite from his mechanical pencil.
This called for careful calligraphy.
Dear Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall,
Or Whomsoever It May Concern
I recently received your letter of acceptance to Hogwarts,
addressed to Mr. H. Potter. You may not be aware that my genetic
parents, James Potter and Lily Potter (formerly Lily Evans) are
dead. I was adopted by Lily's sister, Petunia EvansVerres, and her
husband, Michael VerresEvans.
I am extremely interested in attending Hogwarts, conditional
on such a place actually existing. Only my mother Petunia says she
knows about magic, and she can't use it herself. My father is
highly sceptical. I myself am uncertain. I also don't know where to
obtain any of the books or equipment listed in your acceptance
letter.
Mother mentioned that you sent a Hogwarts representative to
Lily Potter (then Lily Evans) in order to demonstrate to her family
that magic was real, and, I presume, help Lily obtain her school
materials. If you could do this for my own family it would be
extremely helpful.
Sincerely,
Harry James PotterEvansVerres.
Harry added their current address, then folded up the letter and
put it in an envelope, which he addressed to Hogwarts. Further
consideration led him to obtain a candle and drip wax onto the flap
of the envelope, into which, using a penknife's tip, he impressed
the initials H.J.P.E.V. If he was going to descend into this
madness, he was going to do it with style.
Then he opened his door and went back downstairs. His father was
sitting in the livingroom and reading a book of higher maths to
show how smart he was; and his mother was in the kitchen preparing
one of his father's favourite meals to show how loving she was. It
didn't look like they were talking to one another at all. As scary
as arguments could be, not arguing was somehow much
worse.
"Mum," Harry said into the unnerving silence, "I'm going to test
the hypothesis. According to your theory, how do I send an owl to
Hogwarts?"
His mother turned from the kitchen sink to stare at him, looking
shocked. "I  I don't know, I think you just have to own a magic
owl."
That should've sounded highly suspicious, oh, so there's no
way to test your theory then, but the peculiar certainty in
Harry seemed willing to stick its neck out even further.
"Well, the letter got here somehow," Harry said, "so I'll just
wave it around outside and call 'letter for Hogwarts!' and see if
an owl picks it up. Dad, do you want to come and watch?"
His father shook his head minutely and kept on reading. Of
course, Harry thought to himself. Magic was a disgraceful
thing that only stupid people believed in; if his father went so
far as to test the hypothesis, or even watch it
being tested, that would feel like associating himself
with that...
Only as Harry stumped out the back door, into the back garden,
did it occur to him that if an owl did come down and
snatch the letter, he was going to have some trouble telling Dad
about it.
But  well  that can't really happen, can it? No
matter what my brain seems to believe. If an owl really comes down
and grabs this envelope, I'm going to have worries a lot more
important than what Dad thinks.
Harry took a deep breath, and raised the envelope into the
air.
He swallowed.
Calling out Letter for Hogwarts! while holding an
envelope high in the air in the middle of your own back garden
was... actually pretty embarrassing, now that he thought about
it.
No. I'm better than Dad. I will use the scientific method
even if it makes me feel stupid.
"Letter " Harry said, but it actually came out as more of a
whispered croak.
Harry steeled his will, and shouted into the empty sky,
"Letter for Hogwarts! Can I get an owl?"
"Harry?" asked a bemused woman's voice, one of the
neighbours.
Harry pulled down his hand like it was on fire and hid the
envelope behind his back like it was drug money. His whole face was
hot with shame.
An old woman's face peered out from above the neighbouring
fence, grizzled grey hair escaping from her hairnet. Mrs. Figg, the
occasional babysitter. "What are you doing, Harry?"
"Nothing," Harry said in a strangled voice. "Just  testing a
really silly theory "
"Did you get your acceptance letter from Hogwarts?"
Harry froze in place.
"Yes," Harry's lips said a little while later. "I got a letter
from Hogwarts. They say they want my owl by the 31st of July, but
"
"But you don't have an owl. Poor dear! I can't imagine
what someone must have been thinking, sending you just the
standard letter."
A wrinkled arm stretched out over the fence, and opened an
expectant hand. Hardly even thinking at this point, Harry gave over
his envelope.
"Just leave it to me, dear," said Mrs. Figg, "and in a jiffy or
two I'll have someone over."
And her face disappeared from over the fence.
There was a long silence in the garden.
Then a boy's voice said, calmly and quietly, "What."

#include "stddisclaimer.h"

"Of course it was my fault. There's no one else here who
could be responsible for anything."

"Now, just to be clear," Harry said, "if the professor does
levitate you, Dad, when you know you haven't been attached to any
wires, that's going to be sufficient evidence. You're not going to
turn around and say that it's a magician's trick. That wouldn't be
fair play. If you feel that way, you should say so now,
and we can figure out a different experiment instead."
Harry's father, Professor Michael VerresEvans, rolled his eyes.
"Yes, Harry."
"And you, Mum, your theory says that the professor should be
able to do this, and if that doesn't happen, you'll admit you're
mistaken. Nothing about how magic doesn't work when people are
sceptical of it, or anything like that."
Deputy Headmistress Minerva McGonagall was watching Harry with a
bemused expression. She looked quite witchy in her black robes and
pointed hat, but when she spoke she sounded formal and Scottish,
which didn't go together with the look at all. At first glance she
looked like someone who ought to cackle and put babies into
cauldrons, but the whole effect was ruined as soon as she opened
her mouth. "Is that sufficient, Mr. Potter?" she said. "Shall I go
ahead and demonstrate?"
"Sufficient? Probably not," Harry said. "But at least
it will help. Go ahead, Deputy Headmistress."
"Just Professor will do," said she, and then, "Wingardium
Leviosa."
Harry looked at his father.
"Huh," Harry said.
His father looked back at him. "Huh," his father echoed.
Then Professor VerresEvans looked back at Professor McGonagall.
"All right, you can put me down now."
His father was lowered carefully to the ground.
Harry ruffled a hand through his own hair. Maybe it was just
that strange part of him which had already been convinced,
but... "That's a bit of an anticlimax," Harry said. "You'd think
there'd be some kind of more dramatic mental event associated with
updating on an observation of infinitesimal probability " Harry
stopped himself. Mum, the witch, and even his Dad were giving him
that look again. "I mean, with finding out that everything
I believe is false."
Seriously, it should have been more dramatic. His brain ought to
have been flushing its entire current stock of hypotheses about the
universe, none of which allowed this to happen. But instead his
brain just seemed to be going, All right, I saw the Hogwarts
Professor wave her wand and make your father rise into the air, now
what?
The witchlady was smiling benevolently upon them, looking quite
amused. "Would you like a further demonstration, Mr. Potter?"
"You don't have to," Harry said. "We've performed a definitive
experiment. But..." Harry hesitated. He couldn't help himself.
Actually, under the circumstances, he shouldn't be helping
himself. It was right and proper to be curious. "What else
can you do?"
Professor McGonagall turned into a cat.
Harry scrambled back unthinkingly, backpedalling so fast that he
tripped over a stray stack of books and landed hard on his bottom
with a thwack. His hands came down to catch himself
without quite reaching properly, and there was a warning twinge in
his shoulder as the weight came down unbraced.
At once the small tabby cat morphed back up into a robed woman.
"I'm sorry, Mr. Potter," said the witch, sounding sincere, though
the corners of her lips were twitching upwards. "I should have
warned you."
Harry was breathing in short gasps. His voice came out choked.
"You can't DO that!"
"It's only a Transfiguration," said Professor McGonagall. "An
Animagus transformation, to be exact."
"You turned into a cat! A SMALL cat! You violated
Conservation of Energy! That's not just an arbitrary rule, it's
implied by the form of the quantum Hamiltonian! Rejecting it
destroys unitarity and then you get FTL signalling! And cats are
COMPLICATED! A human mind can't just visualise a whole
cat's anatomy and, and all the cat biochemistry, and what about the
neurology? How can you go on thinking using a
catsized brain?"
Professor McGonagall's lips were twitching harder now.
"Magic."
"Magic isn't enough to do that! You'd have to be a
god!"
Professor McGonagall blinked. "That's the first time I've ever
been called that."
A blur was coming over Harry's vision, as his brain started to
comprehend what had just broken. The whole idea of a unified
universe with mathematically regular laws, that was what had been
flushed down the toilet; the whole notion of physics.
Three thousand years of resolving big complicated things into
smaller pieces, discovering that the music of the planets was the
same tune as a falling apple, finding that the true laws were
perfectly universal and had no exceptions anywhere and took the
form of simple maths governing the smallest parts, not to
mention that the mind was the brain and the brain was made of
neurons, a brain was what a person was 
And then a woman turned into a cat, so much for all that.
A hundred questions fought for priority over Harry's lips and
the winner poured out "And, and what kind of incantation is
Wingardium Leviosa? Who invents the words to these spells,
nursery schoolers?"
"That will do, Mr. Potter," Professor McGonagall said crisply,
though her eyes shone with suppressed amusement. "If you wish to
learn about magic, I suggest that we finalise the paperwork so that
you can go to Hogwarts."
"Right," Harry said, somewhat dazed. He pulled his thoughts
together. The March of Reason would just have to start over, that
was all; they still had the experimental method and that was the
important thing. "How do I get to Hogwarts, then?"
A choked laugh escaped Professor McGonagall, as if extracted
from her by tweezers.
"Hold on a moment, Harry," his father said. "Remember why you
haven't been going to school up until now? What about your
condition?"
Professor McGonagall spun to face Michael. "His condition?
What's this?"
"I don't sleep right," Harry said. He waved his hands
helplessly. "My sleep cycle is twentysix hours long, I always go
to sleep two hours later, every day. I can't fall asleep any
earlier than that, and then the next day I go to sleep two hours
later than that. 10PM, 12AM, 2AM, 4AM, until it goes
around the clock. Even if I try to wake up early, it makes no
difference and I'm a wreck that whole day. That's why I haven't
been going to a normal school up until now."
"One of the reasons," said his mother. Harry shot her a
glare.
McGonagall gave a long hmmmmm. "I can't recall hearing
about such a condition before..." she said slowly. "I'll check with
Madam Pomfrey to see if she knows any remedies." Then her face
brightened. "No, I'm sure this won't be a problem  I'll find a
solution in time. Now," and her gaze sharpened again, "what are
these other reasons?"
Harry sent his parents a glare. "I am a conscientious objector
to child conscription, on grounds that I should not have to suffer
for a disintegrating school system's failure to provide teachers or
study materials of even minimally adequate quality."
Both of Harry's parents howled with laughter at that, like they
thought it was all a big joke. "Oh," said Harry's father, eyes
bright, "is that why you bit a maths teacher in third
year."
"She didn't know what a logarithm was!"
"Of course," seconded Harry's mother. "Biting her was a very
mature response to that."
Harry's father nodded. "A wellconsidered policy for addressing
the problem of teachers who don't understand logarithms."
"I was seven years old! How long are you going to keep
on bringing that up?"
"I know," said his mother sympathetically, "you bite
one maths teacher and they never let you forget it, do
they?"
Harry turned to Professor McGonagall. "There! You see what I
have to deal with?"
"Excuse me," said Petunia, and fled through the backdoor into
the garden, from which her screams of laughter were clearly
audible.
"There, ah, there," Professor McGonagall seemed to be having
trouble speaking for some reason, "there is to be no biting of
teachers at Hogwarts, is that quite clear, Mr. Potter?"
Harry scowled at her. "Fine, I won't bite anyone who doesn't
bite me first."
Professor Michael VerresEvans also had to leave the room
briefly upon hearing that.
"Well," Professor McGonagall sighed, after Harry's parents had
composed themselves and returned. "Well. I think, under the
circumstances, that I should avoid taking you to purchase your
study materials until a day or two before school begins."
"What? Why? The other children already know magic, don't they? I
have to start catching up right away!"
"Rest assured, Mr. Potter," replied Professor McGonagall,
"Hogwarts is quite capable of teaching the basics. And I suspect,
Mr. Potter, that if I leave you alone for two months with your
schoolbooks, even without a wand, I will return to this house only
to find a crater billowing purple smoke, a depopulated city
surrounding it and a plague of flaming zebras terrorising what
remains of England."
Harry's mother and father nodded in perfect unison.
"Mum! Dad!"

If J. K. Rowling asks you about this story, you know
nothing.

"But then the question is  who?"

"Good Lord," said the barman, peering at Harry, "is this  can
this be ?"
Harry leaned towards the bar of the Leaky Cauldron as best he
could, though it came up to somewhere around the tips of his
eyebrows. A question like that deserved his very best.
"Am I  could I be  maybe  you never know  if I'm
not  but then the question is  who?"
"Bless my soul," whispered the old barman. "Harry Potter... what
an honour."
Harry blinked, then rallied. "Well, yes, you're quite
perceptive; most people don't realise that so quickly "
"That's enough," Professor McGonagall said. Her hand tightened
on Harry's shoulder. "Don't pester the boy, Tom, he's new to all
this."
"But it is him?" quavered an old woman. "It's Harry Potter?"
With a scraping sound, she got up from her chair.
"Doris " McGonagall said warningly. The glare she shot around
the room should have been enough to intimidate anyone.
"I only want to shake his hand," the woman whispered. She bent
low and stuck out a wrinkled hand, which Harry, feeling confused
and more uncomfortable than he ever had in his life, carefully
shook. Tears fell from the woman's eyes onto their clasped hands.
"My granson was an Auror," she whispered to him. "Died in
seventynine. Thank you, Harry Potter. Thank heavens for you."
"You're welcome," Harry said automatically, and then he turned
his head and shot Professor McGonagall a frightened, pleading
look.
Professor McGonagall slammed her foot down just as the general
rush was about to start. It made a noise that gave Harry a new
referent for the phrase "Crack of Doom", and everyone froze in
place.
"We're in a hurry," Professor McGonagall said in a voice that
sounded perfectly, utterly normal.
They left the bar without any trouble.
"Professor?" Harry said, once they were in the courtyard. He had
meant to ask what was going on, but oddly found himself asking an
entirely different question instead. "Who was that pale man, by the
corner? The man with the twitching eye?"
"Hm?" said Professor McGonagall, sounding a bit surprised;
perhaps she hadn't expected that question either. "That was
Professor Quirinus Quirrell. He'll be teaching Defence Against the
Dark Arts this year at Hogwarts."
"I had the strangest feeling that I knew him..." Harry rubbed
his forehead. "And that I shouldn't ought to shake his hand." Like
meeting someone who had been a friend, once, before something went
drastically wrong... that wasn't really it at all, but Harry
couldn't find words. "And what was... all of that?"
Professor McGonagall was giving him an odd glance. "Mr.
Potter... do you know... how much have you been told...
about how your parents died?"
Harry returned a steady look. "My parents are alive and well,
and they always refused to talk about how my genetic
parents died. From which I infer that it wasn't good."
"An admirable loyalty," said Professor McGonagall. Her voice
went low. "Though it hurts a little to hear you say it like that.
Lily and James were friends of mine."
Harry looked away, suddenly ashamed. "I'm sorry," he said in a
small voice. "But I have a Mum and Dad. And I know that
I'd just make myself unhappy by comparing that reality to...
something perfect that I built up in my imagination."
"That is amazingly wise of you," Professor McGonagall said
quietly. "But your genetic parents died very well indeed,
protecting you."
Protecting me?
Something strange clutched at Harry's heart. "What...
did happen?"
Professor McGonagall sighed. Her wand tapped Harry's forehead,
and his vision blurred for a moment. "Something of a disguise," she
said, "so that this doesn't happen again, not until you're ready."
Then her wand licked out again, and tapped three times on a brick
wall...
...which hollowed into a hole, and dilated and expanded and
shivered into a huge archway, revealing a long row of shops with
signs advertising cauldrons and dragon livers.
Harry didn't blink. It wasn't like anyone was turning into a
cat.
And they walked forwards, together, into the wizarding
world.
There were merchants hawking Bounce Boots ("Made with real
Flubber!") and "Knives +3! Forks +2! Spoons with a +4 bonus!" There
were goggles that would turn anything you looked at green, and a
lineup of comfy armchairs with ejection seats for emergencies.
Harry's head kept rotating, rotating like it was trying to wind
itself off his neck. It was like walking through the magical items
section of an Advanced Dungeons and Dragons rulebook (he
didn't play the game, but he did enjoy reading the rulebooks).
Harry desperately didn't want to miss a single item for sale, in
case it was one of the three you needed to complete the cycle of
infinite wish spells.
Then Harry spotted something that made him, entirely without
thinking, veer off from the Deputy Headmistress and start heading
straight into the shop, a front of blue bricks with bronzemetal
trim. He was brought back to reality only when Professor McGonagall
stepped right in front of him.
"Mr. Potter?" she said.
Harry blinked, then realised what he'd just done. "I'm sorry! I
forgot for a moment that I was with you instead of my family."
Harry gestured at the shop window, which displayed fiery letters
that shone piercingly bright and yet remote, spelling out
Bigbam's Brilliant Books. "When you walk past a bookshop
you haven't visited before, you have to go in and look around.
That's the family rule."
"That is the most Ravenclaw thing I have ever heard."
"What?"
"Nothing. Mr. Potter, our first step is to visit Gringotts, the
bank of the wizarding world. Your genetic family vault is
there, with the inheritance your genetic parents left you,
and you'll need money for school supplies." She sighed. "And, I
suppose, a certain amount of spending money for books could be
excused as well. Though you might want to hold off for a time.
Hogwarts has quite a large library on magical subjects. And the
tower in which, I strongly suspect, you will be living, has a more
broadranging library of its own. Any book you bought now would
probably be a duplicate."
Harry nodded, and they walked on.
"Don't get me wrong, it's a great distraction," Harry
said as his head kept swivelling, "probably the best distraction
anyone has ever tried on me, but don't think I've forgotten about
our pending discussion."
Professor McGonagall sighed. "Your parents  or your mother at
any rate  may have been very wise not to tell you."
"So you wish that I could continue in blissful ignorance? There
is a certain flaw in that plan, Professor McGonagall."
"I suppose it would be rather pointless," the witch said
tightly, "when anyone on the street could tell you the story. Very
well."
And she told him of HeWhoMustNotBeNamed, the Dark Lord,
Voldemort.
"Voldemort?" Harry whispered. It should have been funny, but it
wasn't. The name burned with a cold feeling, ruthlessness, diamond
clarity, a hammer of pure titanium descending upon an anvil of
yielding flesh. A chill swept over Harry even as he pronounced the
word, and he resolved then and there to use safer terms like
YouKnowWho.
The Dark Lord had raged upon wizarding Britain like a wilding
wolf, tearing and rending at the fabric of their everyday lives.
Other countries had wrung their hands but hesitated to intervene,
whether out of apathetic selfishness or simple fear, for whichever
was first among them to oppose the Dark Lord, their peace would be
the next target of his terror.
(The bystander effect, thought Harry, thinking of
Latane and Darley's experiment which had shown that you were more
likely to get help if you had an epileptic fit in front of one
person than in front of three. Diffusion of responsibility,
everyone hoping that someone else would go first.)
The Death Eaters had followed in the Dark Lord's wake and in his
vanguard, carrion vultures to pick at wounds, or snakes to bite and
weaken. The Death Eaters were not as terrible as the Dark Lord, but
they were terrible, and they were many. And the Death Eaters
wielded more than wands; there was wealth within those masked
ranks, and political power, and secrets held in blackmail, to
paralyse a society trying to protect itself.
An old and respected journalist, Yermy Wibble, called for
increased taxes and conscription. He shouted that it was absurd for
the many to cower in fear of the few. His skin, only his skin, had
been found nailed to the newsroom wall that next morning, next to
the skins of his wife and two daughters. Everyone wished for
something more to be done, and no one dared take the lead to
propose it. Whoever stood out the most became the next example.
Until the names of James and Lily Potter rose to the top of that
list.
And those two might have died with their wands in their hands
and not regretted their choices, for they were heroes; but
for that they had an infant child, their son, Harry Potter.
Tears were coming into Harry's eyes. He wiped them away in anger
or maybe desperation, I didn't know those people, not really,
they aren't my parents now, it would be pointless to feel
so sad for them 
When Harry was done sobbing into the witch's robes, he looked
up, and felt a little bit better to see tears in Professor
McGonagall's eyes as well.
"So what happened?" Harry said, his voice trembling.
"The Dark Lord came to Godric's Hollow," Professor McGonagall
said in a whisper. "You should have been hidden, but you were
betrayed. The Dark Lord killed James, and he killed Lily, and he
came in the end to you, to your cot. He cast the Killing Curse at
you, and that was where it ended. The Killing Curse is formed of
pure hate, and strikes directly at the soul, severing it from the
body. It cannot be blocked, and whomever it strikes, they die. But
you survived. You are the only person ever to survive. The Killing
Curse rebounded and struck the Dark Lord, leaving only the burnt
hulk of his body and a scar upon your forehead. That was the end of
the terror, and we were free. That, Harry Potter, is why people
want to see the scar on your forehead, and why they want to shake
your hand."
The storm of weeping that had washed through Harry had used up
all his tears; he could not cry again, he was done.
(And somewhere in the back of his mind was a small, small note
of confusion, a sense of something wrong about that story; and it
should have been a part of Harry's art to notice that tiny note,
but he was distracted. For it is a sad rule that whenever you are
most in need of your art as a rationalist, that is when you are
most likely to forget it.)
Harry detached himself from Professor McGonagall's side. "I'll 
have to think about this," he said, trying to keep his voice under
control. He stared at his shoes. "Um. You can go ahead and call
them my parents, if you want, you don't have to say 'genetic
parents' or anything. I guess there's no reason I can't have two
mothers and two fathers."
There was no sound from Professor McGonagall.
And they walked together in silence, until they came before a
great white building with vast bronze doors, and carven words above
saying Gringotts Bank.

Disclaimer J. K. Rowling is watching you from where she waits,
eternally in the void between worlds.
A/N As others have noted, the novels seem inconsistent in the
apparent purchasing power of a Galleon; I'm picking a consistent
value and sticking with it. Five pounds sterling to the Galleon
doesn't square with seven Galleons for a wand and children using
handmedown wands.

"World domination is such an ugly phrase. I prefer to call
it world optimisation."

Heaps of gold Galleons. Stacks of silver Sickles. Piles of
bronze Knuts.
Harry stood there, and stared with his mouth open at the family
vault. He had so many questions he didn't know where to
start.
From just outside the door of the vault, Professor McGonagall
watched him, seeming to lean casually against the wall, but her
eyes intent. Well, that made sense. Being plopped in front of a
giant heap of gold coins was a test of character so pure it was
archetypal.
"Are these coins the pure metal?" Harry said finally.
"What?" hissed the goblin Griphook, who was waiting near the
door. "Are you questioning the integrity of Gringotts, Mr.
PotterEvansVerres?"
"No," said Harry absently, "not at all, sorry if that came out
wrong, sir. I just have no idea at all how your financial system
works. I'm asking if Galleons in general are made of pure
gold."
"Of course," said Griphook.
"And can anyone coin them, or are they issued by a monopoly that
thereby collects seigniorage?"
"What?" said Professor McGonagall.
Griphook grinned, showing sharp teeth. "Only a fool would trust
any but goblin coin!"
"In other words," Harry said, "the coins aren't supposed to be
worth any more than the metal making them up?"
Griphook stared at Harry. Professor McGonagall looked
bemused.
"I mean, suppose I came in here with a ton of silver. Could I
get a ton of Sickles made from it?"
"For a fee, Mr. PotterEvansVerres." The goblin watched him
with glittering eyes. "For a certain fee. Where would you find a
ton of silver, I wonder?"
"I was speaking hypothetically," Harry said. For now, at any
rate. "So... how much would you charge in fees, as a fraction
of the whole weight?"
Griphook's eyes were intent. "I would have to consult my
superiors..."
"Give me a wild guess. I won't hold Gringotts to it."
"A twentieth part of the metal would well pay for the
coining."
Harry nodded. "Thank you very much, Mr. Griphook."
So not only is the wizarding economy almost completely
decoupled from the Muggle economy, no one here has ever heard of
arbitrage. The larger Muggle economy had a fluctuating trading
range of gold to silver, so every time the Muggle goldtosilver
ratio got more than 5% away from the weight of seventeen Sickles to
one Galleon, either gold or silver should have drained from the
wizarding economy until it became impossible to maintain the
exchange rate. Bring in a ton of silver, change to Sickles (and pay
5%), change the Sickles for Galleons, take the gold to the Muggle
world, exchange it for more silver than you started with, and
repeat.
Wasn't the Muggle gold to silver ratio somewhere around fifty to
one? Harry didn't think it was seventeen, anyway. And it looked
like the silver coins were actually smaller than the gold
coins.
Then again, Harry was standing in a bank that literally
stored your money in vaults full of gold coins guarded by dragons,
where you had to go in and take coins out of your vault whenever
you wanted to spend money. The finer points of arbitraging away
market inefficiencies might well be lost on them. He'd been tempted
to make snide remarks about the crudity of their financial
system...
But the sad thing is, their way is probably better.
On the other hand, one competent hedge fundie could probably own
the whole wizarding world within a week. Harry filed away this
notion in case he ever ran out of money, or had a week free.
Meanwhile, the giant heaps of gold coins within the Potter vault
ought to suit his nearterm requirements.
Harry stumped forward, and began picking up gold coins with one
hand and dumping them into the other.
When he had reached twenty, Professor McGonagall coughed. "I
think that will be more than enough to pay for your school
supplies, Mr. Potter."
"Hm?" Harry said, his mind elsewhere. "Hold on, I'm doing a
Fermi calculation."
"A what?" said Professor McGonagall, sounding somewhat
alarmed.
"It's a mathematical thing. Named after Enrico Fermi. A way of
getting rough numbers quickly in your head..."
Twenty gold Galleons weighed a tenth of a kilogram, maybe? And
gold was, what, ten thousand British pounds a kilogram? So a
Galleon would be worth about fifty pounds... The mounds of gold
coins looked to be about sixty coins high and twenty coins wide in
either dimension of the base, and a mound was pyramidal, so it
would be around onethird of the cube. Eight thousand Galleons per
mound, roughly, and there were around five mounds of that size, so
forty thousand Galleons or 2 million pounds sterling.
Not bad. Harry smiled with a certain grim satisfaction. It was
too bad that he was right in the middle of discovering the amazing
new world of magic, and couldn't take time out to explore the
amazing new world of being rich, which a quick Fermi estimate said
was roughly a billion times less interesting.
Still, that's the last time I ever mow a lawn for one lousy
pound.
Harry wheeled from the giant heap of money. "Pardon me for
asking, Professor McGonagall, but I understand that my parents were
in their twenties when they died. Is this a usual amount
of money for a young couple to have in their vault, in the
wizarding world?" If it was, a cup of tea probably cost five
thousand pounds. Rule one of economics you can't eat money.
Professor McGonagall shook her head. "Your father was the last
heir of an old family, Mr. Potter. It's also possible..." The witch
hesitated. "Some of this money may be from bounties placed on
YouKnowWho, payable to his ki ah, to whoever might defeat him.
Or those bounties might not have been collected yet. I am not
sure."
"Interesting..." Harry said slowly. "So some of this really is,
in a sense, mine. That is, earned by me. Sort of. Possibly. Even if
I don't remember the occasion." Harry's fingers tapped against his
trouserleg. "That makes me feel less guilty about spending a
very tiny fraction of it! Don't panic, Professor
McGonagall!"
"Mr. Potter! You are a minor, and as such, you will only be
allowed to make reasonable withdrawals from "
"I am all about reasonable! I am totally on board with
fiscal prudence and impulse control! But I did see some
things on the way here which would constitute sensible,
grownup purchases..."
Harry locked gazes with Professor McGonagall, engaging in a
silent staring contest.
"Like what?" Professor McGonagall said finally.
"Trunks whose insides hold more than their outsides?"
Professor McGonagall's face grew stern. "Those are very
expensive, Mr. Potter!"
"Yes, but " Harry pleaded. "I'm sure that when I'm an adult
I'll want one. And I can afford one. Logically, it would
make just as much sense to buy it now instead of later, and get the
use of it right away. It's the same money either way, right? I
mean, I would want a good one, with lots of room
inside, good enough that I wouldn't have to just get a better one
later..." Harry trailed off hopefully.
Professor McGonagall's gaze didn't waver. "And just what would
you keep in a trunk like that, Mr. Potter "
"Books."
"Of course," sighed Professor McGonagall.
"You should have told me much earlier that sort of
magic item existed! And that I could afford one! Now my father and
I are going to have to spend the next two days frantically
hitting up all the secondhand bookshops for old textbooks, so I can
have a decent science library with me at Hogwarts  and maybe a
small science fiction collection, if I can assemble something
decent out of the bargain bins. Or better yet, I'll make the deal a
little sweeter for you, okay? Just let me buy "
"Mr. Potter! You think you can bribe me?"
"What? No! Not like that! I'm saying, Hogwarts can keep
some of the books I bring, if you think that any of them would make
good additions to the library. I'm going to be getting them cheap,
and I just want to have them around somewhere or other.
It's okay to bribe people with books, right? That's a
"
"Family tradition."
"Yes, exactly."
Professor McGonagall's body seemed to slump, the shoulders
lowering within her black robes. "I cannot deny the sense of your
words, though I much wish I could. I will allow you to withdraw an
additional hundred Galleons, Mr. Potter." She sighed again. "I
know that I shall regret this, and I am doing it
anyway."
"That's the spirit! And does a 'mokeskin pouch' do what I think
it does?"
"It can't do as much as a trunk," the witch said with visible
reluctance, "but... a mokeskin pouch with a Retrieval Charm and
Undetectable Extension Charm can hold a number of items until they
are called forth by the one who emplaced them "
"Yes! I definitely need one of those too! It would be like the
super beltpack of ultimate awesomeness! Batman's utility belt of
holding! Never mind my swiss army knife, I could carry a whole tool
set in there! Or books! I could have the top three books I
was reading on me at all times, and just pull one out anywhere!
I'll never have to waste another minute of my life! What do you
say, Professor McGonagall? It's for the sake of children's reading,
the best of all possible causes."
"...I suppose you may add another ten Galleons."
Griphook was favouring Harry with a gaze of frank respect,
possibly even outright admiration.
"And a little spending money, like you mentioned earlier. I
think I can remember seeing one or two other things I might want to
store in that pouch."
"Don't push it, Mr. Potter."
"But oh, Professor McGonagall, why rain on my parade? Surely
this is a happy day, when I discover all things wizarding
for the first time! Why act the part of the grumpy grownup when
instead you could smile and remember your own innocent childhood,
watching the look of delight upon my young face as I buy a few toys
using an insignificant fraction of the wealth that I earned by
defeating the most terrible wizard Britain has ever known, not that
I'm accusing you of being ungrateful or anything, but still, what
are a few toys compared to that?"
"You," growled Professor McGonagall. There was a look
on her face so fearsome and terrible that Harry squeaked and
stepped back, knocking over a pile of gold coins with a great
jingling noise and sprawling backwards into a heap of money.
Griphook sighed and put a palm over his face. "I would be doing a
great service to wizarding Britain, Mr. Potter, if I locked you in
this vault and left you here."
And they left without any more trouble.

J. K. Rowling is staring at you. Can you feel her eyes on you?
She's reading your mind using her Rowling Rays.

"It would've required a supernatural intervention
for him to have your morality given his
environment."

The Moke Shop was a quaint little shop (some might even say
cute) ensconced behind a vegetable stall that was behind a magical
glove shop that was on an alleyway off a side street of Diagon
Alley. Disappointingly, the shopkeeper was not a wizened ancient
crone; just a nervouslooking young woman wearing faded yellow
robes. Right now she was holding out a Moke Super Pouch QX31, whose
selling point was that it had a Widening Lip as well as an
Undetectable Extension Charm you could actually fit big things in
it, though the total volume was still limited.
Harry had insisted on coming here straight away, first
thing  insisted as hard as he thought he could without making
Professor McGonagall suspicious. Harry had something he needed to
put into the pouch as soon as possible. It wasn't the bag of
Galleons that Professor McGonagall had allowed him to withdraw from
Gringotts. It was all the other Galleons that Harry had
surreptitiously shoved into his pocket after falling into a heap of
gold coins. That had been a real accident, but Harry was
never one to discard an opportunity... though it'd really been more
of a spurofthemoment thing. Ever since Harry had been awkwardly
carrying the allowed bag of Galleons next to his trouser pocket, so
that any jingling would seem to come from the right place.
This still left the question of how he was actually going to get
the other coins into the pouch without getting caught. The
golden coins might have been his, but they were still stolen 
selfstolen? Autothieved?
Harry looked up from the Moke Super Pouch QX31 on the counter in
front of him. "Can I try this for a bit? To make sure it works, um,
reliably?" He widened his eyes in an expression of boyish, playful
innocence.
Sure enough, after ten repetitions of putting the coinbag into
the pouch, reaching in, whispering "bag of gold", and taking it
out, Professor McGonagall took a step away and began examining some
of the other items in the shop, and the shopkeeper turned her head
to watch.
Harry dropped the bag of gold into the mokeskin pouch with his
left hand; his right hand came out of his pocket
tightly holding some of the gold coins, reached into the mokeskin
pouch, dropped the loose Galleons, and (with a whisper of "bag of
gold") retrieved the original bag. Then the bag went back into his
left hand, to be dropped in again, and Harry's
right hand went back into his pocket...
Professor McGonagall looked back at him once, but Harry managed
to avoid freezing or flinching, and she didn't seem to notice
anything. Though you never did quite know, with the adults
that had a sense of humour. It took three iterations to get the job
done, and Harry guessed he'd managed to steal maybe thirty Galleons
from himself.
Harry reached up, wiped a bit of sweat from his forehead, and
exhaled. "I'd like this one, please."
Fifteen Galleons lighter (twice the price of a wizard's wand,
apparently) and one Moke Super Pouch QX31 heavier, Harry and
Professor McGonagall pushed their way out of the door. The door
formed a hand and waved goodbye to them as they left, extruding its
arm in a way that made Harry feel a bit queasy.
And then, unfortunately...
"Are you really Harry Potter?" whispered the old man,
one huge tear sliding down his cheek. "You wouldn't lie about that,
would you? Only I'd heard rumours that you didn't really
survive the Killing Curse and that's why no one ever heard from you
again."
...it seemed that Professor McGonagall's disguise spell was less
than perfectly effective against more experienced magical
practitioners.
Professor McGonagall had laid a hand on Harry's shoulder and
yanked him into the nearest alleyway the moment she'd heard "Harry
Potter?" The old man had followed, but at least it looked like no
one else had heard.
Harry considered the question. Was he really Harry
Potter? "I only know what other people have told me," Harry said.
"It's not like I remember being born." His hand brushed his
forehead. "I've had this scar as long as I remember, and I've been
told my name was Harry Potter as long as I remember. But," Harry
said thoughtfully, "if there's already sufficient cause to
postulate a conspiracy, there's no reason why they wouldn't just
find another orphan and raise him to believe that he was
Harry Potter "
Professor McGonagall drew her hand over her face in
exasperation. "You look just about exactly like your father, James,
the year he first attended Hogwarts. And I can attest on the basis
of personality alone that you are related to the Scourge
of Gryffindor."
"She could be in on it too," Harry observed.
"No," quavered the old man. "She's right. You have your mother's
eyes."
"Hmm," Harry frowned. "I suppose you could be in on it
too "
"Enough, Mr. Potter."
The old man raised up a hand as if to touch Harry, but then let
it fall. "I'm just glad that you're alive," he murmured. "Thank
you, Harry Potter. Thank you for what you did... I'll leave you
alone now."
And his cane slowly tapped away, out the alley and down the main
street of Diagon Alley.
The Professor looked around, her expression tense and grim.
Harry automatically looked around himself. But the alley seemed
empty of all but old leaves, and from the mouth leading out into
Diagon Alley, only swiftly striding passersby could be seen.
Finally Professor McGonagall seemed to relax. "That was not well
done," she said in a low voice. "I know you're not used to this,
Mr. Potter, but people do care about you. Please be kind to
them."
Harry looked down at his shoes. "They shouldn't," he said with a
tinge of bitterness. "Care about me, I mean."
"You saved them from YouKnowWho," said Professor McGonagall.
"How should they not care?"
Harry looked up at the witchlady's strict expression beneath
her pointed hat, and sighed. "I suppose there's no chance that if I
said fundamental attribution error you'd have any idea
what that meant."
"No," said the Professor in her precise Scottish accent, "but
please explain, Mr. Potter, if you would be so kind."
"Well..." Harry said, trying to figure out how to describe that
particular bit of Muggle science. "Suppose you come into work and
see your colleague kicking his desk. You think, 'what an angry
person he must be'. Your colleague is thinking about how someone
bumped him into a wall on the way to work and then shouted at him.
Anyone would be angry at that, he thinks. When we look at
others we see personality traits that explain their behaviour, but
when we look at ourselves we see circumstances that explain our
behaviour. People's stories make internal sense to them, from the
inside, but we don't see people's histories trailing behind them in
the air. We only see them in one situation, and we don't see what
they would be like in a different situation. So the fundamental
attribution error is that we explain by permanent, enduring traits
what would be better explained by circumstance and context." There
were some elegant experiments which confirmed this, but Harry
wasn't about to go into them.
The witch's eyebrows drew up beneath her hat's brim. "I think I
understand..." Professor McGonagall said slowly. "But what does
that have to do with you?"
Harry kicked the brick wall of the alley hard enough to make his
foot hurt. "People think that I saved them from YouKnowWho
because I'm some kind of great warrior of the Light."
"The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord..." murmured
the witch, a strange irony leavening her voice.
"Yes," Harry said, annoyance and frustration warring in him,
"like I destroyed the Dark Lord because I have some kind of
permanent, enduring destroytheDarkLord trait. I was fifteen
months old at the time! I don't know what happened, but I
would suppose it had something to do with, as the saying
goes, contingent environmental circumstances. And certainly nothing
to do with my personality. People don't care about me,
they aren't even paying attention to me, they want to
shake hands with a bad explanation." Harry paused, and
looked at McGonagall. "Do you know what really
happened?"
"I have formed an idea..." said Professor McGonagall.
"After meeting you, that is."
"Yes?"
"You triumphed over the Dark Lord by being more awful than
he was, and survived the Killing Curse by being more
terrible than Death."
"Ha. Ha. Ha." Harry kicked the wall again.
Professor McGonagall chuckled. "Let's get you to Madam Malkin's
next. I fear your Muggle clothing may be attracting attention."
They ran into two more wellwishers along the way.
Madam Malkin's Robes had a genuinely boring shopfront, red
ordinary brick, and glass windows showing plain black robes within.
Not robes that shone or changed or spun, or radiated strange rays
that seemed to go right through your shirt and tickle you. Just
plain black robes, that was all you could see through the window.
The door was propped wide open, as if to advertise that there were
no secrets here and nothing to hide.
"I'm going to go off for a few minutes while you get fitted for
your robes," said Professor McGonagall. "Will you be all right with
that, Mr. Potter?"
Harry nodded. He hated clothes shopping with a fiery passion and
couldn't blame the older witch for feeling the same way.
Professor McGonagall's wand came out of her sleeve, tapped
Harry's head lightly. "And as you'll need to be clear to Madam
Malkin's senses, I am removing the Obfuscation."
"Uh..." Harry said. That did worry him a little; he still wasn't
used to the 'Harry Potter' thing.
"I went to Hogwarts with Madam Malkin," McGonagall said. "Even
then, she was one of the most composed people I knew. She
wouldn't turn a hair if YouKnowWho himself walked into her shop."
McGonagall's voice was reminiscent, and very approving. "Madam
Malkin won't bother you, and she won't let anyone else bother
you."
"Where are you going?" Harry inquired. "Just in case,
you know, something does happen."
McGonagall gave Harry a hard look. "I am going there,"
she said, pointing at a building across the street which showed the
sign of a wooden keg, "and buying a drink, which I desperately
need. You are to get fitted for your robes, nothing
else. I will come back to check up on you shortly,
and I expect to find Madam Malkin's shop still standing
and not in any way on fire."
Madam Malkin was a bustling old woman who didn't say a word
about Harry when she saw the scar on his forehead, and she shot a
sharp look at an assistant when that girl seemed about to say
something. Madam Malkin got out a set of animated, writhing bits of
cloth that seemed to serve as tape measures and set to work
examining the medium of her art.
Next to Harry, a pale young boy with a pointed face and
awesomecool blondewhite hair seemed to be going through
the final stages of a similar process. One of Malkin's two
assistants was examining the whitehaired boy and the
chequerboardgridded robe he was wearing; occasionally she would
tap a corner of the robe with her wand, and the robe would loosen
or tighten.
"Hello," said the boy. "Hogwarts, too?"
Harry could predict where this conversation was about to go, and
he decided in a split second of frustration that enough was
enough.
"Good heavens," whispered Harry, "it couldn't be." He let his
eyes widen. "Your... name, sir?"
"Draco Malfoy," said Draco Malfoy, looking slightly puzzled.
"It is you! Draco Malfoy. I  I never thought I'd be so
honoured, sir." Harry wished he could make tears come out of his
eyes. The others usually started crying at around this point.
"Oh," said Draco, sounding a little confused. Then his lips
stretched in a smug smile. "It's good to meet someone who knows his
place."
One of the assistants, the one who'd seemed to recognise Harry,
made a muffled choking sound.
Harry burbled on. "I'm delighted to meet you, Mr. Malfoy. Just
unutterably delighted. And to be attending Hogwarts in your very
year! It makes my heart swoon."
Oops. That last part might have sounded a little odd, like he
was flirting with Draco or something.
"And I am pleased to learn that I shall be treated with
the respect due to the family of Malfoy," the other boy lobbed
back, accompanied by a smile such as the highest of kings might
bestow upon the least of his subjects, if that subject were honest,
though poor.
Eh... Damn, Harry was having trouble thinking up his next line.
Well, everyone did want to shake the hand of Harry Potter,
so  "When my clothes are fitted, sir, might you deign to shake my
hand? I should wish nothing more to put the capper upon this day,
nay, this month, indeed, my whole lifetime."
The whiteblondehaired boy glared in return. "And what have
you done for the Malfoys that entitles you to such a
favour?"
Oh, I am so totally trying this routine on the next person
who wants to shake my hand. Harry bowed his head. "No, no,
sir, I understand. I'm sorry for asking. I should be honoured to
clean your boots, rather."
"Indeed," snapped the other boy. His stern face lightened
somewhat. "Tell me, what House do you think you might be sorted
into? I'm bound for Slytherin House, of course, like my father
Lucius before me. And for you, I'd guess House Hufflepuff, or
possibly House Elf."
Harry grinned sheepishly. "Professor McGonagall says that I'm
the most Ravenclaw person she's ever seen or heard tell of in
legend, so much so that Rowena herself would tell me to get out
more, whatever that means, and that I'll undoubtedly end
up in Ravenclaw House if the hat isn't screaming too loudly for the
rest of us to make out any words, end quote."
"Wow," said Draco Malfoy, sounding slightly impressed. The boy
gave a sort of wistful sigh. "Your flattery was great, or I thought
so, anyway  you'd do well in Slytherin House, too. Usually it's
only my father who gets that sort of grovelling. I'm
hoping the other Slytherins will suck up to me now I'm at
Hogwarts... I guess this is a good sign, then."
Harry coughed. "Actually, sorry, I've got no idea who you are
really."
"Oh come on!" the boy said with fierce disappointment.
"Why'd you go and do that, then?" Draco's eyes widened with sudden
suspicion. "And how do you not know about the Malfoys? And
what are those clothes you're wearing? Are your parents
Muggles?"
"Two of my parents are dead," Harry said. His heart twinged.
When he put it that way  "My other two parents are Muggles, and
they're the ones that raised me."
"What?" said Draco. "Who are you?"
"Harry Potter, pleased to meet you."
"Harry Potter?" gasped Draco. "The Harry "
and the boy cut off abruptly.
There was a brief silence.
Then, with bright enthusiasm, "Harry Potter? The Harry
Potter? Gosh, I've always wanted to meet you!"
Draco's attendant emitted a sound like she was strangling but
kept on with her work, lifting Draco's arms to carefully remove the
chequered robe.
"Shut up," Harry suggested.
"Can I have your autograph? No, wait, I want a picture with you
first!"
"Shutupshutupshutup."
"I'm just so delighted to meet you!"
"Burst into flames and die."
"But you're Harry Potter, the glorious saviour of the wizarding
world! Everyone's hero, Harry Potter! I've always wanted to be just
like you when I grow up so I can "
Draco cut off the words in midsentence, his face freezing in
absolute horror.
Tall, whitehaired, coldly elegant in black robes of the finest
quality. One hand gripping a silverhandled cane which took on the
character of a deadly weapon just by being in that hand. His eyes
regarded the room with the dispassionate quality of an executioner,
a man to whom killing was not painful, or even deliciously
forbidden, but just a routine activity like breathing.
That was the man who had, just that moment, strolled in through
the open door.
"Draco," said the man, low and very angry, "what are
you saying?"
In one split second of sympathetic panic, Harry formulated a
rescue plan.
"Lucius Malfoy!" gasped Harry Potter. "The Lucius
Malfoy?"
One of Malkin's assistants had to turn away and face the
wall.
Coolly murderous eyes regarded him. "Harry Potter."
"I am so, so honoured to meet you!"
The dark eyes widened, shocked surprise replacing deadly
threat.
"Your son has been telling me all about you," Harry
gushed on, hardly even knowing what was coming out of his mouth but
just talking as fast as possible. "But of course I knew about you
all before then, everyone knows about you, the great Lucius Malfoy!
The most honoured laureate of all the House of Slytherin, I've been
thinking about trying to get into Slytherin House myself just
because I heard you were in it as a child "
"What are you saying, Mr. Potter?" came a nearscream
from outside the shop, and Professor McGonagall burst in a second
later.
There was such pure horror on her face that Harry's mouth opened
automatically, and then blocked on nothingtosay.
"Professor McGonagall!" cried Draco. "Is it really you? I've
heard so much about you from my father, I've been thinking of
trying to get Sorted into Gryffindor so I can "
"What?" bellowed Lucius Malfoy and Professor
McGonagall in perfect unison, standing sidebyside. Their heads
swivelled to look at each other in duplicate motions, and then the
two recoiled from one another as though performing a synchronised
dance.
There was a sudden flurry of action as Lucius seized Draco and
dragged him out of the shop.
And then there was silence.
In Professor McGonagall's left hand lay a small drinkingglass,
tilted over to one side in the forgotten rush, now slowly dripping
drops of alcohol into the tiny puddle of red wine that had appeared
on the floor.
Professor McGonagall strode forward into the shop until she was
opposite Madam Malkin.
"Madam Malkin," said Professor McGonagall, her voice calm. "What
has been happening here?"
Madam Malkin looked back silently for four seconds, and then
cracked up. She fell against the wall, wheezing out laughter, and
that set off both of her assistants, one of whom fell to her hands
and knees on the floor, giggling hysterically.
Professor McGonagall slowly turned to look at Harry, her
expression chilly. "I leave you alone for six minutes. Six minutes,
Mr. Potter, by the very clock."
"I was only joking around," Harry protested, as the sounds of
hysterical laughter went on nearby.
"Draco Malfoy said in front of his father that he wanted to
be sorted into Gryffindor! Joking around isn't enough
to do that!" Professor McGonagall paused, visibly taking
breaths. "What part of 'get fitted for robes' sounded to you like
please cast a Confundus Charm on the entire
universe!"
"He was in a situational context where those actions made
internal sense "
"No. Don't explain. I don't want to know what happened in here,
ever. Whatever dark power inhabits you, it is contagious,
and I don't want to end up like poor Draco Malfoy, poor Madam
Malkin and her two poor assistants."
Harry sighed. It was clear that Professor McGonagall wasn't in a
mood to listen to reasonable explanations. He looked at Madam
Malkin, who was still wheezing against the wall, and Malkin's two
assistants, who had now both fallen to their knees, and
finally down at his own tapemeasuredraped body.
"I'm not quite done being fitted for clothes," Harry said
kindly. "Why don't you go back and have another drink?"

Blah blah disclaimer blah blah Rowling blah blah ownership.
A/N The "Aftermath" section of this chapter is part of the
story, not omake.

You think your day was surreal? Try mine.

Some children would have waited until after
their first trip to Diagon Alley.
"Bag of element 79," Harry said, and withdrew his hand, empty,
from the mokeskin pouch.
Most children would have at least waited to get their
wands first.
"Bag of okane," said Harry. The heavy bag of gold
popped up into his hand.
Harry withdrew the bag, then plunged it again into the mokeskin
pouch. He took out his hand, put it back in, and said, "Bag of
tokens of economic exchange." That time his hand came out
empty.
"Give me back the bag that I just put in." Out came the bag of
gold once more.
Harry James PotterEvansVerres had gotten his hands on at least
one magical item. Why wait?
"Professor McGonagall," Harry said to the bemused witch
strolling beside him, "can you give me two words, one word for
gold, and one word for something else that isn't money, in a
language that I wouldn't know? But don't tell me which is
which."
"Ahava and zahav," said Professor McGonagall.
"That's Hebrew, and the other word means love."
"Thank you, Professor. Bag of ahava." Empty.
"Bag of zahav." And it popped up into his hand.
"Zahav is gold?" Harry questioned, and Professor McGonagall
nodded.
Harry thought over his collected experimental data. It was only
the most crude and preliminary sort of effort, but it was enough to
support at least one conclusion
"Aaaaaaarrrgh this doesn't make any sense!"
The witch beside him lifted a lofty eyebrow. "Problems, Mr.
Potter?"
"I just falsified every single hypothesis I had! How can it know
that 'bag of 115 Galleons' is okay but not 'bag of 90 plus 25
Galleons'? It can count but it can't add? It can
understand nouns, but not some noun phrases that mean the same
thing? The person who made this probably didn't speak Japanese and
I don't speak any Hebrew, so it's not using their
knowledge, and it's not using my knowledge " Harry waved
a hand helplessly. "The rules seem sorta consistent but
they don't mean anything! I'm not even going to ask how a
pouch ends up with voice recognition and natural language
understanding when the best Artificial Intelligence programmers
can't get the fastest supercomputers to do it after thirtyfive
years of hard work," Harry gasped for breath, "but what is
going on?"
"Magic," said Professor McGonagall.
"That's just a word! Even after you tell me that, I
can't make any new predictions! It's exactly like saying
'phlogiston' or 'elan vital' or 'emergence' or 'complexity'!"
The blackrobed witch laughed aloud. "But it is magic,
Mr. Potter."
Harry slumped over a little. "With respect, Professor
McGonagall, I'm not quite sure you understand what I'm trying to do
here."
"With respect, Mr. Potter, I'm quite sure I don't. Unless  this
is just a guess, mind  you're trying to take over the world?"
"No! I mean yes  well, no!"
"I think I should perhaps be alarmed that you have trouble
answering the question."
Harry glumly considered the Dartmouth Conference on Artificial
Intelligence in 1956. It had been the first conference ever on the
topic, the one that had coined the phrase "Artificial
Intelligence". They had identified key problems such as making
computers understand language, learn, and improve themselves. They
had suggested, in perfect seriousness, that significant advances on
these problems might be made by ten scientists working together for
two months.
No. Chin up. You're just starting on the problem of
unravelling all the secrets of magic. You don't actually know
whether it's going to be too difficult to do in two
months.
"And you really haven't heard of other wizards asking
these sorts of questions or doing this sort of scientific
experimenting?" Harry asked again. It just seemed so
obvious to him.
Then again, it'd taken more than two hundred years
after the invention of the scientific method before any
Muggle scientists had thought to systematically investigate which
sentences a human fouryearold could or couldn't
understand. The developmental psychology of linguistics could've
been discovered in the eighteenth century, in principle, but no one
had even thought to look until the twentieth. So you couldn't
really blame the much smaller wizarding world for not investigating
the Retrieval Charm.
Professor McGonagall pursed her lips, then shrugged. "I'm still
not sure what you mean by 'scientific experimenting', Mr. Potter.
As I said, I've seen Muggleborn students try to get Muggle science
to work inside Hogwarts, and people invent new Charms and Potions
every year."
Harry shook his head. "Technology isn't the same thing as
science at all. And trying lots of different ways to do something
isn't the same as experimenting to figure out the rules." There
were plenty of people who'd tried to invent flying machines by
trying out lots of thingswithwings, but only the Wright Brothers
had built a wind tunnel to measure lift... "Um, how many
Muggleraised children do you get at Hogwarts every
year?"
"Perhaps ten or so?"
Harry missed a step and almost tripped over his own feet.
"Ten?"
The Muggle world had a population of six billion and counting.
If you were one in a million, there were seven of you in London and
a thousand more in China. It was inevitable that the Muggle
population would produce some elevenyearolds who could
do calculus  Harry knew he wasn't the only one. He'd met other
prodigies in mathematical competitions. In fact he'd been
thoroughly trounced by competitors who probably spent literally
all day practising maths problems and who'd never
read a sciencefiction book and who would burn out
completely before puberty and never
amount to anything in their future lives because they'd
just practised known techniques instead of learning to
think creatively. (Harry was something of a sore
loser.)
But... in the wizarding world...
Ten Muggleraised children per year, who'd all ended their
Muggle educations at the age of eleven? And Professor McGonagall
might be biased, but she had claimed that Hogwarts was the largest
and most eminent wizarding school in the world... and it only
educated up to the age of seventeen.
Professor McGonagall undoubtedly knew every last detail of how
you went about turning into a cat. But she seemed to have literally
never heard of the scientific method. To her it was just
Muggle magic. And she didn't even seem curious about what
secrets might be hiding behind the natural language understanding
of the Retrieval Charm.
That left two possibilities, really.
Possibility one Magic was so incredibly opaque, convoluted, and
impenetrable, that even though wizards and witches had tried their
best to understand, they'd made little or no progress and
eventually given up; and Harry would do no better.
Or...
Harry cracked his knuckles in determination, but they only made
a quiet sort of clicking sound, rather than echoing ominously off
the walls of Diagon Alley.
Possibility two He'd be taking over the world.
Eventually. Perhaps not right away.
That sort of thing did sometimes take longer than two
months. Muggle science hadn't gone to the moon in the first week
after Galileo.
But Harry still couldn't stop the huge smile that was stretching
his cheeks so wide they were starting to hurt.
Harry had always been frightened of ending up as one of those
child prodigies that never amounted to anything and spent the rest
of their lives boasting about how far ahead they'd been at age ten.
But then most adult geniuses never amounted to anything either.
There were probably a thousand people as intelligent as Einstein
for every actual Einstein in history. Because those other geniuses
hadn't gotten their hands on the one thing you absolutely needed to
achieve greatness. They'd never found an important problem.
You're mine now, Harry thought at the walls of Diagon
Alley, and all the shops and items, and all the shopkeepers and
customers; and all the lands and people of wizarding Britain, and
all the wider wizarding world; and the entire greater universe of
which Muggle scientists understood so much less than they believed.
I, Harry James PotterEvansVerres, do now claim this territory
in the name of Science.
Lightning and thunder completely failed to flash and boom in the
cloudless skies.
"What are you smiling about?" inquired Professor McGonagall,
warily and wearily.
"I'm wondering if there's a spell to make lightning flash in the
background whenever I make an ominous resolution," explained Harry.
He was carefully memorising the exact words of his ominous
resolution so that future history books would get it right.
"I have the distinct feeling that I ought to be doing something
about this," sighed Professor McGonagall.
"Ignore it, it'll go away. Ooh, shiny!" Harry put his thoughts
of world conquest temporarily on hold and skipped over to a shop
with an open display, and Professor McGonagall followed.

Harry had now bought his potions ingredients and cauldron, and,
oh, a few more things. Items that seemed like good things to carry
in Harry's Bag of Holding (aka Moke Super Pouch QX31 with
Undetectable Extension Charm, Retrieval Charm, and Widening Lip).
Smart, sensible purchases.
Harry genuinely didn't understand why Professor McGonagall was
looking so suspicious.
Right now, Harry was in a shop expensive enough to display in
the twisting main street of Diagon Alley. The shop had an open
front with merchandise laid out on slanted wooden rows, guarded
only by slight grey glows and a younglooking salesgirl in a
muchshortened version of witch's robes that exposed her knees and
elbows.
Harry was examining the wizarding equivalent of a firstaid kit,
the Emergency Healing Pack Plus. There were two selftightening
tourniquets. A syringe of what looked like liquid fire, which was
supposed to drastically slow circulation in a treated area while
maintaining oxygenation of the blood for up to three minutes, if
you needed to prevent a poison from spreading through the body.
White cloth that could be wrapped over a part of the body to
temporarily numb pain. Plus any number of other items that Harry
totally failed to comprehend, like the "Dementor Exposure
Treatment", which looked and smelled like ordinary chocolate. Or
the "Bafflesnaffle Counter", which looked like a small quivering
egg and carried a placard showing how to jam it up someone's
nostril.
"A definite buy at five Galleons, wouldn't you agree?" Harry
said to Professor McGonagall, and the teenage salesgirl hovering
nearby nodded eagerly.
Harry had expected the Professor to make some sort of approving
remark about his prudence and preparedness.
What he was getting instead could only be described as the Evil
Eye.
"And just why," Professor McGonagall said with heavy
scepticism, "do you expect to need a healer's kit, young
man?" (After the unfortunate incident at the Potions shop,
Professor McGonagall was trying to avoid saying "Mr. Potter" while
anyone else was nearby.)
Harry's mouth opened and closed. "I don't expect to
need it! It's just in case!"
"Just in case of what?"
Harry's eyes widened. "You think I'm planning to do
something dangerous and that's why I want a medical
kit?"
A look of grim suspicion and ironic disbelief was the
answer.
"Great Scott!" said Harry. (This was an expression he'd learned
from the mad scientist Doc Brown in Back to the Future.)
"Were you also thinking that when I bought the FeatherFalling
Potion, the Gillyweed, and the bottle of Food and Water Pills?"
"Yes."
Harry shook his head in amazement. "Just what sort of plan do
you think I have going, here?"
"I don't know," Professor McGonagall said darkly, "but it ends
either in you delivering a ton of silver to Gringotts, or in world
domination."
"World domination is such an ugly phrase. I prefer to call it
world optimisation."
This hilarious joke failed to reassure the witch giving him the
Look of Doom.
"Wow," Harry said, as he realised that she was serious. "You
really think that. You really think I'm planning to do something
dangerous."
"Yes."
"Like that's the only reason anyone would ever buy a
firstaid kit? Don't take this the wrong way, Professor McGonagall,
but what sort of crazy children are you used to dealing
with?"
"Gryffindors," spat Professor McGonagall, the word carrying a
freight of bitterness and despair that fell like an eternal curse
on all youthful enthusiasm and high spirits.
"Deputy Headmistress Professor Minerva McGonagall," Harry said,
putting his hands sternly on his hips. "I am not going to be in
Gryffindor "
At this point the Deputy Headmistress interjected something
about how if he was she would figure out how to kill a
hat, which odd remark Harry let pass without comment, though the
salesgirl seemed to be having a sudden coughing fit.
" I am going to be in Ravenclaw. And if you really think that
I'm planning to do something dangerous, then, honestly, you don't
understand me at all. I don't like danger, it is
scary. I am being prudent. I am being
cautious. I am preparing for unforeseen
contingencies. Like my parents used to sing to me Be
prepared! That's the Boy Scout's marching song! Be prepared! As
through life you march along! Don't be nervous, don't be flustered,
don't be scared  be prepared!"
(Harry's parents had in fact only ever sung him those
particular lines of that Tom Lehrer song, and Harry was
blissfully unaware of the rest.)
Professor McGonagall's stance had slightly softened  though
mostly when Harry had said that he was heading for Ravenclaw. "What
sort of contingency do you imagine this kit might prepare
you for, young man?"
"One of my classmates gets bitten by a horrible monster, and as
I scrabble frantically in my mokeskin pouch for something that
could help her, she looks at me sadly and with her last breath
says, 'Why weren't you prepared?' And then she dies, and I
know as her eyes close that she won't ever forgive me "
Harry heard the salesgirl gasp, and he looked up to see her
staring at him with her lips pressed tight. Then the young woman
whirled and fled into the deeper recesses of the shop.
What...?
Professor McGonagall reached down, and took Harry's hand in
hers, gently but firmly, and pulled Harry out of the main street of
Diagon Alley, leading him into an alleyway between two shops which
was paved in dirty bricks and deadended in a wall of solid black
dirt.
The tall witch pointed her wand at the main street and spoke,
"Quietus" she said, and a screen of silence descended
around them, blocking out all the street noises.
What did I do wrong...
Professor McGonagall turned to regard Harry. She didn't have a
full adult Wrongdoing Face, but her expression was flat,
controlled. "You must remember, Mr. Potter," she said, "that there
was a war in this country not ten years ago. Everyone has lost
someone, and to speak of friends dying in your arms  is not done
lightly."
"I  I didn't mean to " The inference dropped like a falling
stone into Harry's exceptionally vivid imagination. He'd talked
about someone breathing their last breath  and then the salesgirl
had run away  and the war had ended ten years ago so that girl
would have been at most eight or nine years old, when, when, "I'm
sorry, I didn't mean to..." Harry choked up, and turned away to run
from the older witch's gaze but there was a wall of dirt blocking
his way and he didn't have his wand yet. "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm
sorry!"
There came a heavy sigh from behind him. "I know you are, Mr.
Potter."
Harry dared to peek behind him. Professor McGonagall only seemed
sad, now. "I'm sorry," Harry said again, feeling wretched. "Did
anything like that happen to " and then Harry shut his lips and
slapped a hand over his mouth for good measure.
The older witch's face grew a little sadder. "You must learn to
think before you speak, Mr. Potter, or else go through life without
many friends. That has been the fate of many a Ravenclaw, and I
hope it will not be yours."
Harry wanted to just run away. He wanted to pull out a wand and
erase the whole thing from Professor McGonagall's memory, be back
with her outside the shop again, make it didn't happen

"But to answer your question, Mr. Potter, no, nothing like
that has ever happened to me. Certainly I've watched a
friend breathe their last, once or seven times. But not one of them
ever cursed me as they died, and I never thought that they wouldn't
forgive me. Why would you say such a thing, Mr. Potter?
Why would you even think it?"
"I, I, I," Harry swallowed. "It's just that I always try to
imagine the worst thing that could happen," and maybe he'd also
been joking around a little but he would rather have bitten off his
own tongue than say that now.
"What?" said Professor McGonagall. "But why?"
"So I can stop it from happening!"
"Mr. Potter..." the older witch's voice trailed off. Then she
sighed, and knelt down beside him. "Mr. Potter," she said, gently
now, "it's not your responsibility to take care of the students at
Hogwarts. It's mine. I won't let anything bad happen to you or
anyone else. Hogwarts is the safest place for magical children in
all the wizarding world, and Madam Pomfrey has a full healer's
office. You won't need a healer's kit at all, let alone a
fiveGalleon one."
"But I do!" Harry burst out. "Nowhere is
perfectly safe! And what if my parents have a heart attack or get
in an accident when I go home for Christmas  Madam Pomfrey won't
be there, I'll need a healer's kit of my own "
"What in Merlin's name..." Professor McGonagall said.
She stood up, and looked down at Harry an expression torn between
annoyance and concern. "There's no need to think about such
terrible things, Mr. Potter!"
Harry's expression twisted up into bitterness, hearing that.
"Yes there is! If you don't think, you don't just get hurt
yourself, you end up hurting other people!"
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, then closed it. The witch
rubbed the bridge of her nose, looking thoughtful. "Mr. Potter...
if I were to offer to listen to you for a while... is there
anything you'd like to talk to me about?"
"About what?"
"About why you're convinced you must always be on your guard
against terrible things happening to you."
Harry stared at her in puzzlement. That was a selfevident
axiom. "Well..." Harry said slowly. He tried to organise his
thoughts. How could he explain himself to a
Professorwitch, when she didn't even know the basics? "Muggle
researchers have found that people are always very optimistic,
compared to reality. Like they say something will take two days and
it takes ten days, or they say it'll take two months and it takes
over thirtyfive years. For example, in one experiment, they asked
students for times by which they were 50% sure, 75% sure, and 99%
sure they'd complete their homework, and only 13%, 19%, and 45% of
the students finished by those times. And they found that the
reason was that when they asked one group for their bestcase
estimates if everything went as well as possible, and another group
for their averagecase estimates if everything went as usual, they
got back answers that were statistically indistinguishable. See, if
you ask someone what they expect in the normal case, they
visualise what looks like the line of maximum probability at each
step along the way  everything going according to plan, with no
surprises. But actually, since more than half the students didn't
finish by the time they were 99% sure they'd be done, reality
usually delivers results a little worse than the 'worstcase
scenario'. It's called the planning fallacy, and the best way to
fix it is to ask how long things took the last time you tried them.
That's called using the outside view instead of the inside view.
But when you're doing something new and can't do that, you just
have to be really, really, really pessimistic. Like, so pessimistic
that reality actually comes out better than you expected
around as often and as much as it comes out worse. It's actually
really hard to be so pessimistic that you stand a
decent chance of undershooting real life. Like I make this
big effort to be gloomy and I imagine one of my classmates getting
bitten, but what actually happens is that the surviving Death
Eaters attack the whole school to get at me. But on a happier note
"
"Stop," said Professor McGonagall.
Harry stopped. He had just been about to point out that at least
they knew the Dark Lord wouldn't attack, since he was dead.
"I think I might not have made myself clear," the witch said,
her precise Scottish voice sounding even more careful. "Did
anything happen to you personally that frightened you, Mr.
Potter?"
"What happened to me personally is only anecdotal evidence,"
Harry explained. "It doesn't carry the same weight as a replicated,
peerreviewed journal article about a controlled study with random
assignment, many subjects, large effect sizes and strong
statistical significance."
Professor McGonagall pinched the bridge of her nose, inhaled,
and exhaled. "I would still like to hear about it," she said.
"Um..." Harry said. He took a deep breath. "There'd been some
muggings in our neighborhood, and my mother asked me to return a
pan she'd borrowed to a neighbor two streets away, and I said I
didn't want to because I might get mugged, and she said, 'Harry,
don't say things like that!' Like thinking about it would
make it happen, so if I didn't talk about it, I would be
safe. I tried to explain why I wasn't reassured, and she made me
carry over the pan anyway. I was too young to know how
statistically unlikely it was for a mugger to target me, but I was
old enough to know that notthinking about something doesn't stop
it from happening, so I was really scared."
"Nothing else?" Professor McGonagall said after a pause, when it
became clear that Harry was done. "There isn't anything
else that happened to you?"
"I know it doesn't sound like much," Harry defended.
"But it was just one of those critical life moments, you see? I
mean, I knew that not thinking about something doesn't
stop it from happening, I knew that, but I could see that
Mum really thought that way." Harry stopped, struggling with the
anger that was starting to rise up again when he thought about it.
"She wouldn't listen. I tried to tell her, I
begged her not to send me out, and she laughed it
off. Everything I said, she treated like some sort of big
joke..." Harry forced the black rage back down again. "That's when
I realised that everyone who was supposed to protect me was
actually crazy, and that they wouldn't listen to me no matter how
much I begged them, and that I couldn't ever rely on them to get
anything right." Sometimes good intentions weren't enough,
sometimes you had to be sane...
There was a long silence.
Harry took the time to breathe deeply and calm himself down.
There was no point in getting angry. There was no point in getting
angry. All parents were like that, no adult would
lower themselves far enough to place themselves on level ground
with a child and listen, his genetic parents would have been no
different. Sanity was a tiny spark in the night, an infinitesimally
rare exception to the rule of madness, so there was no point in
getting angry.
Harry didn't like himself when he was angry.
"Thank you for sharing that, Mr. Potter," said Professor
McGonagall after a while. There was an abstracted look on her face
(almost exactly the same look that had appeared on Harry's own face
while experimenting on the pouch, if Harry had only seen himself in
a mirror to realise that). "I shall have to think about this." She
turned towards the alley mouthway, and raised her wand 
"Um," Harry said, "can we go get the healer's kit now?"
The witch paused, and looked back at him steadily. "And if I say
no  that it is too expensive and you won't need it  then
what?"
Harry's face twisted in bitterness. "Exactly what you're
thinking, Professor McGonagall. Exactly what you're
thinking. I conclude you're another crazy adult I can't talk to,
and I start planning how to get my hands on a healer's kit
anyway."
"I am your guardian on this trip," Professor McGonagall said
with a tinge of danger. "I will not allow you to push me
around."
"I understand," Harry said. He kept the resentment out of his
voice, and didn't say any of the other things that came to mind.
Professor McGonagall had told him to think before he spoke. He
probably wouldn't remember that tomorrow, but he could at least
remember it for five minutes.
The witch's wand made a slight circle in her hand, and the
noises of Diagon Alley came back. "All right, young man," she said.
"Let's go get that healer's kit."
Harry's jaw dropped in surprise. Then he hurried after her,
almost stumbling in his sudden rush.

The shop was the same as they had left it, recognisable and
unrecognisable items still laid out on the slanted wooden display,
the grey glow still protecting and the salesgirl back in her old
position. The salesgirl looked up as they approached, her face
showing surprise.
"I'm sorry," she said as they got closer, and Harry spoke at
almost the same moment, "I apologise for "
They broke off and looked at each other, and then the salesgirl
laughed a little. "I didn't mean to get you in trouble with
Professor McGonagall," she said. Her voice lowered
conspiratorially. "I hope she wasn't too awful to
you."
"Della!" said Professor McGonagall, sounding
scandalised.
"Bag of gold," Harry said to his pouch, and then looked back up
at the salesgirl while he counted out five Galleons. "Don't worry,
I understand that she's only awful to me because she loves me."
He counted out five Galleons to the salesgirl while Professor
McGonagall was spluttering something unimportant. "One Emergency
Healing Pack Plus, please."
It was actually sort of unnerving to see how the Widening Lip
swallowed the briefcasesized medical kit. Harry couldn't help
wondering what would happen if he tried climbing into the mokeskin
pouch himself, given that only the person who put something in was
supposed to be able to take it out again.
When the pouch was done... eating... his hardwon purchase,
Harry swore he heard a small burping sound afterward. That
had to have been spelled in on purpose. The alternative
hypothesis was too horrifying to contemplate... in fact Harry
couldn't even think of any alternative hypotheses. Harry
looked back up at the Professor, as they began walking through
Diagon Alley once more. "Where to next?"
Professor McGonagall pointed toward a shop that looked as if it
had been made from flesh instead of bricks and covered in fur
instead of paint. "Small pets are permitted at Hogwarts  you could
get an owl to send letters, for example "
"Can I pay a Knut or something and rent an owl when I
need to send mail?"
"Yes," said Professor McGonagall.
"Then I think emphatically no."
Professor McGonagall nodded, as though ticking off a point.
"Might I ask why not?"
"I had a pet rock once. It died."
"You don't think you could take care of a pet?"
"I could," Harry said, "but I would end up obsessing
all day long about whether I'd remembered to feed it that day or if
it was slowly starving in its cage, wondering where its master was
and why there wasn't any food."
"That poor owl," the older witch said in a soft voice.
"Abandoned like that. I wonder what it would do."
"Well, I expect it'd get really hungry and start trying to claw
its way out of the cage or the box or whatever, though it probably
wouldn't have much luck with that " Harry stopped short.
The witch went on, still in that soft voice. "And what would
happen to it afterward?"
"Excuse me," Harry said, and he reached up to take Professor
McGonagall by the hand, gently but firmly, and steered her into yet
another alleyway; after ducking so many wellwishers the process
had become almost unnoticeably routine. "Please cast that silencing
spell."
"Quietus."
Harry's voice was shaking. "That owl does not represent
me, my parents never locked me in a cupboard and left me
to starve, I do not have abandonment fears and I don't
like the trend of your thoughts, Professor McGonagall!"
The witch looked down at him gravely. "And what thoughts would
those be, Mr. Potter?"
"You think I was," Harry was having trouble saying it, "I was
abused?"
"Were you?"
"No!" Harry shouted. "No, I never was! Do you think
I'm stupid? I know about the concept of child
abuse, I know about inappropriate touching and all of that
and if anything like that happened I would call the police! And
report it to the head teacher! And look up social services in the
phone book! And tell Grandpa and Grandma and Mrs. Figg! But my
parents never did anything like that, never ever
ever! How dare you suggest such a thing!"
The older witch gazed at him steadily. "It is my duty as Deputy
Headmistress to investigate possible signs of abuse in the children
under my care."
Harry's anger was spiralling out of control into pure, black
fury. "Don't you ever dare breathe a word of these, these
insinuations to anyone else! No one, do you hear
me, McGonagall? An accusation like that can ruin people and destroy
families even when the parents are completely innocent! I've read
about it in the newspapers!" Harry's voice was climbing to a
highpitched scream. "The system doesn't know how to
stop, it doesn't believe the parents or the
children when they say nothing happened! Don't you dare
threaten my family with that! I won't let you destroy my
home!"
"Harry," the older witch said softly, and she reached out a hand
towards him 
Harry took a fast step back, and his hand snapped up and knocked
hers away.
McGonagall froze, then she pulled her hand back, and took a step
backwards. "Harry, it's all right," she said. "I believe you."
"Do you," Harry hissed. The fury still roaring through
his blood. "Or are you just waiting to get away from me so you can
file the papers?"
"Harry, I saw your house. I saw you with your parents. They love
you. You love them. I do believe you when you say that your parents
are not abusing you. But I had to ask, because there is
something strange at work here."
Harry stared at her coldly. "Like what?"
"Harry, I've seen many abused children in my time at Hogwarts,
it would break your heart to know how many. And, when you're happy,
you don't behave like one of those children, not at all.
You smile at strangers, you hug people, I put my hand on your
shoulder and you didn't flinch. But sometimes, only sometimes, you
say or do something that seems very much like... someone
who spent his first eleven years locked in a cellar. Not the loving
family that I saw." Professor McGonagall tilted her head, her
expression growing puzzled again.
Harry took this in, processing it. The black rage began to drain
away, as it dawned on him that he was being listened to
respectfully, and that his family wasn't in danger.
"And how do you explain your observations, Professor
McGonagall?"
"I don't know," she said. "But it's possible that something
could have happened to you that you don't remember."
Fury rose up again in Harry. That sounded all too much like what
he'd read in the newspaper stories of shattered families.
"Suppressed memory is a load of pseudoscience! People do
not repress traumatic memories, they remember them all
too well for the rest of their lives!"
"No, Mr. Potter. There is a Charm called Obliviation."
Harry froze in place. "A spell that erases memories?"
The older witch nodded. "But not all the effects of the
experience, if you see what I'm saying, Mr. Potter."
A chill went down Harry's spine. That hypothesis...
could not be easily refuted. "But my parents couldn't do
that!"
"Indeed not," said Professor McGonagall. "It would have taken
someone from the wizarding world. There's... no way to be certain,
I'm afraid."
Harry's rationalist skills began to boot up again. "Professor
McGonagall, how sure are you of your observations, and what
alternative explanations could there also be?"
The witch opened her hands, as though to show their emptiness.
"Sure? I'm sure of nothing, Mr. Potter. In all my life
I've never met anyone else like you. Sometimes you just don't seem
eleven years old or even all that human."
Harry's eyebrows rose toward the sky 
"I'm sorry!" Professor McGonagall said quickly. "I'm very sorry,
Mr. Potter. I was trying to make a point and I'm afraid that came
out sounding different from what I had in mind "
"On the contrary, Professor McGonagall," Harry said, and slowly
smiled. "I shall take it as a very great compliment. But would you
mind if I offered an alternative explanation?"
"Please do."
"Children aren't meant to be too much smarter than their
parents," Harry said. "Or too much saner, maybe  my father could
probably outsmart me if he was, you know, actually trying,
instead of using his adult intelligence mainly to come up with new
reasons not to change his mind " Harry stopped. "I'm too smart,
Professor. I've got nothing to say to normal children. Adults don't
respect me enough to really talk to me. And frankly, even if they
did, they wouldn't sound as smart as Richard Feynman, so I might as
well read something Richard Feynman wrote instead. I'm
isolated, Professor McGonagall. I've been isolated my
whole life. Maybe that has some of the same effects as being locked
in a cellar. And I'm too intelligent to look up to my parents the
way that children are designed to do. My parents love me, but they
don't feel obliged to respond to reason, and sometimes I feel like
they're the children  children who won't listen and have
absolute authority over my whole existence. I try not to be too
bitter about it, but I also try to be honest with myself,
so, yes, I'm bitter. And I also have an anger management problem,
but I'm working on it. That's all."
"That's all?"
Harry nodded firmly. "That's all. Surely, Professor McGonagall,
even in magical Britain, the normal explanation is always worth
considering?"

It was later in the day, the sun lowering in the summer sky and
shoppers beginning to peter out from the streets. Some shops had
already closed; Harry and Professor McGonagall had bought his
textbooks from Flourish and Blotts just under the deadline. With
only a slight explosion when Harry had made a beeline for the
keyword "Arithmancy" and discovered that the seventhyear textbooks
invoked nothing more mathematically advanced than trigonometry.
At this moment, though, dreams of lowhanging research fruit
were far from Harry's mind.
At this moment, the two of them were walking out of
Ollivander's, and Harry was staring at his wand. He'd waved it, and
produced multicoloured sparks, which really shouldn't have come as
such an extra shock after everything else he'd seen, but somehow

I can do magic.
Me. As in, me personally. I am magical; I am a
wizard.
He had felt the magic pouring up his arm, and in that
instant, realised that he had always had that sense, that he had
possessed it his whole life, the sense that was not sight or sound
or smell or taste or touch but only magic. Like having eyes but
keeping them always closed, so that you didn't even realise that
you were seeing darkness; and then one day the eye opened, and saw
the world. The shock of it had poured through him, touching pieces
of himself, awakening them, and then died away in seconds; leaving
only the certain knowledge that he was now a wizard, and always had
been, and had even, in some strange way, always known it.
And 
"It is very curious indeed that you should be destined for
this wand when its brother why, its brother gave you that
scar."
That could not possibly be coincidence. There had been
thousands of wands in that shop. Well, okay, actually it
could be coincidence, there were six billion people in the
world and thousandtoone coincidences happened every day. But
Bayes's Theorem said that any reasonable hypothesis which made it
more likely than a thousandtoone that he'd end up with
the brother to the Dark Lord's wand, was going to have an
advantage.
Professor McGonagall had simply said how peculiar and
left it at that, which had put Harry into a state of shock at the
sheer, overwhelming uncuriosity of wizards and witches. In
no imaginable world would Harry have just went "Hm" and
walked out of the shop without even trying to come up with
a hypothesis for what was going on.
His left hand rose and touched his scar.
What... exactly...
"You're a full wizard now," said Professor McGonagall.
"Congratulations."
Harry nodded.
"And what do you think of the wizarding world?" said she.
"It's strange," Harry said. "I ought to be thinking about
everything I've seen of magic... everything that I now know is
possible, and everything I now know to be a lie, and all the work
left before me to understand it. And yet I find myself distracted
by relative trivialities like," Harry lowered his voice, "the whole
BoyWhoLived thing." There didn't seem to be anyone nearby, but no
point tempting fate.
Professor McGonagall ahemmed. "Really? You don't
say."
Harry nodded. "Yes. It's just... odd. To find out that
you were part of this grand story, the quest to defeat the great
and terrible Dark Lord, and it's already done. Finished.
Completely over with. Like you're Frodo Baggins and you find out
that your parents took you to Mount Doom and had you toss in the
Ring when you were one year old and you don't even remember
it."
Professor McGonagall's smile had grown somewhat fixed.
"You know, if I were anyone else, anyone else at all, I'd
probably be pretty worried about living up to that start. Gosh,
Harry, what have you done since you defeated the Dark Lord? Your
own bookshop? That's great! Say, did you know I named my child
after you? But I have hopes that this will not prove to be a
problem." Harry sighed. "Still... it's almost enough to make me
wish that there were some loose ends from the quest, just
so I could say that I really, you know, participated
somehow."
"Oh?" said Professor McGonagall in an odd tone. "What did you
have in mind?"
"Well, for example, you mentioned that my parents were betrayed.
Who betrayed them?"
"Sirius Black," the witch said, almost hissing the name. "He's
in Azkaban. Wizarding prison."
"How probable is it that Sirius Black will break out of prison
and I'll have to track him down and defeat him in some sort of
spectacular duel, or better yet put a large bounty on his head and
hide out in Australia while I wait for the results?"
Professor McGonagall blinked. Twice. "Not likely. No one has
ever escaped from Azkaban, and I doubt that he will be the
first."
Harry was a bit sceptical of that "no one has
ever escaped from Azkaban" line. Still, maybe with magic
you could actually get close to a 100% perfect prison, especially
if you had a wand and they did not. The best way to get out would
be to not go there in the first place.
"All right then," Harry said. "Sounds like it's been nicely
wrapped up." He sighed, scrubbing his palm over his head. "Or maybe
the Dark Lord didn't really die that night. Not
completely. His spirit lingers, whispering to people in nightmares
that bleed over into the waking world, searching for a way back
into the living lands he swore to destroy, and now, in accordance
with the ancient prophecy, he and I are locked in a deadly duel
where the winner shall lose and the loser shall win "
Professor McGonagall's head swivelled, and her eyes darted
around, as though to search the street for listeners.
"I'm joking, Professor," Harry said with some
annoyance. Sheesh, why did she always take everything so seriously

A slow sinking sensation began to dawn in the pit of Harry's
stomach.
Professor McGonagall looked at Harry with a calm expression. A
very, very calm expression. Then a smile was put on. "Of
course you are, Mr. Potter."
Aw crap.
If Harry had needed to formalise the wordless inference that had
just flashed into his mind, it would have come out something like,
'If I estimate the probability of Professor McGonagall doing what I
just saw as the result of carefully controlling herself, versus the
probability distribution for all the things she would do
naturally if I made a bad joke, then this behavior is
significant evidence for her hiding something.'
But what Harry actually thought was, Aw crap.
Harry turned his own head to scan the street. Nope, no one
nearby. "He's not dead, is he," Harry sighed.
"Mr. Potter "
"The Dark Lord is alive. Of course he's alive. It was
an act of utter optimism for me to have even
dreamed otherwise. I must have taken leave of my
senses, I can't imagine what I was
thinking. Just because someone said that his body
was found burned to a crisp, I can't imagine why I would
have thought he was dead. Clearly I have much
left to learn about the art of proper pessimism."
"Mr. Potter "
"At least tell me there's not really a prophecy..." Professor
McGonagall was still giving him that bright, fixed smile. "Oh, you
have got to be kidding me."
"Mr. Potter, you shouldn't go inventing things to worry about
"
"Are you actually going to tell me that?
Imagine my reaction later, when I find out that there was something
to worry about after all."
Her fixed smile faltered.
Harry's shoulders slumped. "I have a whole world of magic to
analyse. I do not have time for this."
Then both of them shut up, as a man in flowing orange robes
appeared on the street and slowly passed them by; Professor
McGonagall's eyes tracked him, unobtrusively. Harry's mouth was
moving as he chewed hard on his lip, and someone watching closely
would have noticed a tiny spot of blood appear.
When the orangerobed man had passed into the distance, Harry
spoke again, in a low murmur. "Are you going to tell me the truth
now, Professor McGonagall? And don't bother trying to wave it off,
I'm not stupid."
"You're eleven years old, Mr. Potter!" she said in a
harsh whisper.
"And therefore subhuman. Sorry... for a moment there, I
forgot."
"These are dreadful and important matters! They are
secret, Mr. Potter! It is a catastrophe that you,
still a child, know even this much! You must not tell
anyone, do you understand? Absolutely no one!"
As sometimes happened when Harry got sufficiently
angry, his blood went cold, instead of hot, and a terrible dark
clarity descended over his mind, mapping out possible tactics and
assessing their consequences with iron realism.
Point out that you have a right to know Failure.
Elevenyearold children do not have rights to know anything, in
McGonagall's eyes.
Say that you will not be friends any more Failure. She does
not value your friendship sufficiently.
Point out that you will be in danger if you do not know
Failure. Plans have already been made based on your ignorance.
The certain inconvenience of rethinking will seem far more
unpalatable than the mere uncertain prospect of your
coming to harm.
Justice and reason will both fail. You must either find
something you have that she wants, or find something you can do
which she fears...
Ah.
"Well then, Professor," Harry said in a low, icy tone, "it
sounds like I have something you want. You can, if you like, tell
me the truth, the whole truth, and in return I will keep
your secrets. Or you can try to keep me ignorant so you can use me
as a pawn, in which case I will owe you nothing."
McGonagall stopped short in the street. Her eyes blazed and her
voice descended into an outright hiss. "How dare you!"
"How dare you!" he whispered back at her.
"You would blackmail me?"
Harry's lips twisted. "I am offering you a
favor. I am giving you a chance to protect
your precious secret. If you refuse I will have
every natural motive to make inquiries elsewhere, not to
spite you, but because I have to know! Get past your
pointless anger at a child who you think ought to obey
you, and you'll realise that any sane adult would do the same!
Look at it from my perspective! How would you feel if it was
YOU?"
Harry watched McGonagall, observed her harsh breathing. It
occurred to him that it was time to ease off the pressure, let her
simmer for a while. "You don't have to decide right away," Harry
said in a more normal tone. "I'll understand if you want time to
think about my offer... but I'll warn you of one thing,"
Harry said, his voice going colder. "Don't try that Obliviation
spell on me. Some time ago I worked out a signal, and I have
already sent that signal to myself. If I find that signal and I
don't remember sending it..." Harry let his voice trail
off significantly.
McGonagall's face was working as her expressions shifted. "I...
wasn't thinking of Obliviating you, Mr. Potter... but why would you
have invented such a signal if you didn't know about
"
"I thought of it while reading a Muggle sciencefiction book,
and said to myself, well, just in case... And no, I won't
tell you the signal, I'm not dumb."
"I hadn't planned to ask," McGonagall said. She seemed to fold
in on herself, and suddenly looked very old, and very tired. "This
has been an exhausting day, Mr. Potter. Can we get your trunk, and
send you home? I will trust you not to speak upon this matter until
I have had time to think. Keep in mind that there are only two
other people in the whole world who know about this matter, and
they are Headmaster Albus Dumbledore and Professor Severus
Snape."
So. New information; that was a peace offering. Harry nodded in
acceptance, and turned his head to look forward, and started
walking again, as his blood slowly began to warm over once
more.
"So now I've got to find some way to kill an immortal Dark
Wizard," Harry said, and sighed in frustration. "I really wish you
had told me that before I started shopping."

The trunk shop was more richly appointed than any other shop
Harry had visited; the curtains were lush and delicately patterned,
the floor and walls of stained and polished wood, and the trunks
occupied places of honor on polished ivory platforms. The salesman
was dressed in robes of finery only a cut below those of Lucius
Malfoy, and spoke with exquisite, oily politeness to both Harry and
Professor McGonagall.
Harry had asked his questions, and had gravitated to a trunk of
heavylooking wood, not polished but warm and solid, carved with
the pattern of a guardian dragon whose eyes shifted to look at
anyone nearing it. A trunk charmed to be light, to shrink on
command, to sprout small clawed tentacles from its bottom and
squirm after its owner. A trunk with two drawers on each of four
sides that each slid out to reveal compartments as deep as the
whole trunk. A lid with four locks each of which would reveal a
different space inside. And  this was the important part  a
handle on the bottom which slid out a frame containing a staircase
leading down into a small, lighted room that would hold, Harry
estimated, around twelve bookcases.
If they made luggages like this, Harry didn't know why anyone
bothered owning a house.
One hundred and eight golden Galleons. That was the price of a
good trunk, lightly used. At around fifty British pounds to the
Galleon, that was enough to buy a secondhand car. It would be more
expensive than everything else Harry had ever bought in his whole
life all put together.
Ninetyseven Galleons. That was how much was left in the bag of
gold Harry had been allowed to take out of Gringotts.
Professor McGonagall wore a look of chagrin upon her face. After
a long day's shopping she hadn't needed to ask Harry how much gold
was left in the bag, after the salesman quoted his price, which
meant the Professor could do good mental arithmetic without pen and
paper. Once again, Harry reminded himself that scientifically
illiterate was not at all the same thing as
stupid.
"I'm sorry, young man," said Professor McGonagall. "This is
entirely my fault. I would offer to take you back to Gringotts, but
the bank will be closed for all but emergency services now."
Harry looked at her, wondering...
"Well," sighed Professor McGonagall, as she swung on one heel,
"we may as well go, I suppose."
...she hadn't lost it completely when a child had dared
defy her. She hadn't been happy, but she had thought
instead of exploding in fury. It might have just been that there
was an immortal Dark Lord to fight  that she had needed Harry's
goodwill. But most adults wouldn't have been capable of thinking
even that much; wouldn't consider future consequences at
all, if someone lower in status had refused to obey
them...
"Professor?" Harry said.
The witch turned back and looked at him.
Harry took a deep breath. He needed to be a little angry for
what he wanted to try now, there was no way he'd have the courage
to do it otherwise. She didn't listen to me, he thought to
himself, I would have taken more gold but she didn't want to
listen... Focusing his entire world on McGonagall and the need
to bend this conversation to his will, he spoke.
"Professor, you thought one hundred Galleons would be more than
enough for a trunk. That's why you didn't bother warning me before
it went down to ninetyseven. Which is just the sort of thing the
research studies show  that's what happens when people think
they're leaving themselves a little error margin. They're
not pessimistic enough. If it'd been up to me, I'd have taken
two hundred Galleons just to be sure. There was plenty of
money in that vault, and I could have put back any extra later. But
I thought you wouldn't let me do it. I thought you'd be angry at me
just for asking. Was I wrong?"
"I suppose I must confess that you are right," said Professor
McGonagall. "But, young man "
"That sort of thing is the reason why I have trouble trusting
adults." Somehow Harry kept his voice steady. "Because they get
angry if you even try to reason with them. To them it's
defiance and insolence and a challenge to their higher tribal
status. If you try to talk to them they get angry. So if I
had anything really important to do, I wouldn't
be able to trust you. Even if you listened with deep concern to
whatever I said  because that's also part of the role of
someone playing a concerned adult  you'd never change your
actions, you wouldn't actually behave differently, because of
anything I said."
The salesman was watching them both with unabashed
fascination.
"I can understand your point of view," Professor McGonagall said
eventually. "If I sometimes seem too strict, please remember that I
have served as Head of Gryffindor House for what feels like several
thousand years."
Harry nodded and continued. "So  suppose I had a way to get
more Galleons from my vault without us going back to
Gringotts, but it involved me violating the role of an obedient
child. Would I be able to trust you with that, even though you'd
have to step outside your own role as Professor McGonagall to take
advantage of it?"
"What?" said Professor McGonagall.
"To put it another way, if I could make today have happened
differently, so that we didn't take too little money with
us, would that be all right even though it would involve a child
being insolent to an adult in retrospect?"
"I... suppose..." the witch said, looking quite puzzled.
Harry took out the mokeskin pouch, and said, "Eleven Galleons
originally from my family vault."
And there was gold in Harry's hand.
For a moment Professor McGonagall's mouth gaped wide, then her
jaw snapped shut and her eyes narrowed and the witch bit out,
"Where did you get that "
"From my family vault, like I said."
"How?"
"Magic."
"That's hardly an answer!" snapped Professor McGonagall, and
then stopped, blinking.
"No, it isn't, is it? I ought to claim that it's
because I experimentally discovered the true secrets of how the
pouch works and that it can actually retrieve objects from
anywhere, not just its own inside, if you phrase the request
correctly. But actually it's from when I fell into that pile of
gold before and I shoved some Galleons into my pocket. Anyone who
understands pessimism knows that money is something you might need
quickly and without much warning. So now are you angry at me for
defying your authority? Or glad that we succeeded in our important
mission?"
The salesman's eyes were wide like saucers.
And the tall witch stood there, silent.
"Discipline at Hogwarts must be enforced," she said
after almost a full minute. "For the sake of all the
students. And that must include courtesy and obedience
from you to all professors."
"I understand, Professor McGonagall."
"Good. Now let us buy that trunk and go home."
Harry felt like throwing up, or cheering, or fainting, or
something. That was the first time his careful reasoning
had ever worked on anyone. Maybe because it was also the
first time he had something really serious that an adult needed
from him, but still 
Minerva McGonagall, +1 point.
Harry bowed, and gave the bag of gold and the extra eleven
Galleons into McGonagall's hands. "Thank you very much, Professor.
Can you finish up the purchase for me? I've got to visit the
lavatory."
The salesman, unctuous once more, pointed toward a door set into
the wall with a goldhandled knob. As Harry started to walk away,
he heard the salesman ask in his oily voice, "May I inquire as to
who that was, Madam McGonagall? I take it he is Slytherin 
thirdyear, perhaps?  and from a prominent family, but I did not
recognise "
The slam of the lavatory door cut off his words, and after Harry
had identified the lock and pressed it into place, he grabbed the
magical selfcleaning towel and, with shaky hands, wiped moisture
off his forehead. Harry's entire body was sheathed in sweat which
had soaked clear through his Muggle clothing, though at least it
didn't show through the robes.

The sun was setting and it was very late indeed, by the time
they stood again in the courtyard of the Leaky Cauldron, the silent
leafdusted interface between magical Britain's Diagon Alley and
the entire Muggle world. (That was one awfully decoupled
economy...) Harry was to go to a phone box and call his father,
once he was on the other side. He didn't need to worry about his
luggage being stolen, apparently. His trunk had the status of a
major magical item, something that most Muggles wouldn't notice;
that was part of what you could get in the wizarding world, if you
were willing to pay the price of a secondhand car.
"So here we part ways, for a time," Professor McGonagall said.
She shook her head in wonderment. "This has been the strangest day
of my life for... many a year. Since the day I learned that a child
had defeated YouKnowWho. I wonder now, looking back, if that was
the last reasonable day of the world."
Oh, like she had anything to complain about. You
think your day was surreal? Try mine.
"I was very impressed with you today," Harry said to her. "I
should have remembered to compliment you out loud, I was awarding
you points in my head and everything."
"Thank you, Mr. Potter," said Professor McGonagall. "If you had
already been sorted into a House I would have deducted so many
points that your grandchildren would still be losing the House
Cup."
"Thank you, Professor." It was probably too early to
call her Minnie.
This woman might well be the sanest adult Harry had ever met,
despite her lack of scientific background. Harry was even
considering offering her the numbertwo position in whatever group
he formed to fight the Dark Lord, though he wasn't silly enough to
say that out loud. Now what would be a good name for that...?
The Death Eater Eaters?
"I'll see you again soon, when school starts," Professor
McGonagall said. "And, Mr. Potter, about your wand "
"I know what you're going to ask," Harry said. He took out his
precious wand and, with a deep twinge of inner pain, flipped it
over in his hand, presenting her with the handle. "Take it. I
hadn't planned to do anything, not a single thing, but I don't want
you to have nightmares about me blowing up my house."
Professor McGonagall shook her head rapidly. "Oh no, Mr. Potter!
That isn't done. I only meant to warn you not to use your
wand at home, since the Ministry can detect underage magic and it
is prohibited without supervision."
"Ah," Harry said. "That sounds like a very sensible rule. I'm
glad to see the wizarding world takes that sort of thing
seriously."
Professor McGonagall peered hard at him. "You really mean
that."
"Yes," Harry said. "I get it. Magic is dangerous and the rules
are there for good reasons. Certain other matters are also
dangerous. I get that too. Remember that I am not stupid."
"I am unlikely ever to forget it. Thank you, Harry, that does
make me feel better about entrusting you with certain things.
Goodbye for now."
Harry turned to go, into the Leaky Cauldron and out towards the
Muggle world.
As his hand touched the back door's handle, he heard a last
whisper from behind him.
"Hermione Granger."
"What?" Harry said, his hand still on the door.
"Look for a firstyear girl named Hermione Granger on the train
to Hogwarts."
"Who is she?"
There was no answer, and when Harry turned around, Professor
McGonagall was gone.

Aftermath
Headmaster Albus Dumbledore leaned forward over his desk. His
twinkling eyes peered out at Minerva. "So, my dear, how did you
find Harry?"
Minerva opened her mouth. Then she closed her mouth. Then she
opened her mouth again. No words came out.
"I see," Albus said gravely. "Thank you for your report,
Minerva. You may go."

Whoa. A spokesman for Rowling's literary agent said that Rowling
is okay with the existence of fanfiction as long as no one charges
for it and everyone's clear that the original copyrights belong to
her? That's really cool of her. So thank you, JKR, and thine is the
kingdom!

I feel the need to disclaim that certain parts of this chapter
are not meant as "bashing". It's not that I have a grudge, the
story just writes itself and once you start dropping anvils on a
character it's hard to stop.
A few reviewers have asked whether the science in this story is
real or made up. Yes, it is real, and if you look at my profile,
you'll see a link to a certain nonfiction site that will teach you
pretty much everything Harry James PotterEvansVerres knows
and then some.
Thank you very much to all my reviewers. (Especially
Darkandus on Viridian Dreams, for the surprisingly inspiring
comment "Lungs and tea are not meant to interact".

"Your dad is almost as awesome as my dad."

Petunia EvansVerres's lips were trembling and her eyes were
tearing up as Harry hugged her midsection on Platform Nine of the
King's Cross Station. "Are you sure you don't want me to come with
you, Harry?"
Harry glanced over to his father Michael VerresEvans, who was
looking stereotypically sternbutproud, and then back to his
mother, who really did look rather... uncomposed. "Mum, I know you
don't like the wizarding world very much. You don't have to come
with. I mean it."
Petunia winced. "Harry, you shouldn't worry about me, I'm your
mother and if you need someone with you "
"Mum, I'm going to be on my own at Hogwarts for months
and months. If I can't manage a train platform alone,
better to find out sooner rather than later so we can abort." He
lowered his voice to a whisper. "Besides, Mum, they all love me
over there. If I have any problems, all I need to do is take off my
sweatband," Harry tapped the exercise band covering his scar, "and
I'll have way more help than I can handle."
"Oh, Harry," Petunia whispered. She knelt down and hugged him
hard, face to face, their cheeks resting against each other. Harry
could feel her ragged breathing, and then he heard a muffled sob
escape. "Oh, Harry, I do love you, always remember that."
It's like she's afraid she'll never see me again, the
thought popped into Harry's head. He knew the thought was true but
he didn't know why Mum was so afraid.
So he made a guess. "Mum, you know that I'm not going to turn
into your sister just because I'm learning magic, right? I'll do
any magic you ask for  if I can, I mean  or if you want me
not to use any magic around the house, I'll do that too, I
promise I'll never let magic come between us "
A tight hug cut off his words. "You have a good heart," his
mother whispered into his ear. "A very good heart, my son."
Harry choked up himself a little, then.
His mother released him, and stood up. She took a handkerchief
out of her handbag, and with a trembling hand dabbed at the running
makeup around her eyes.
There were no questions about his father accompanying him to the
magical side of King's Cross Station. Dad had trouble just looking
at Harry's trunk directly. Magic ran in families, and Michael
VerresEvans couldn't even walk.
So instead his father just cleared his throat. "Good luck at
school, Harry," he said. "Do you think I bought you enough
books?"
Harry had explained to his father about how he thought this
might be his big chance to do something really revolutionary and
important, and Professor VerresEvans had nodded and dumped his
extremely busy schedule for two solid days in order to go on the
Greatest Secondhand Bookshop Raid Ever, which had covered four
cities and produced thirty boxes of science books now
sitting in the cavern level of Harry's trunk. Most of the books had
gone for a pound or two, but some of them definitely
hadn't, like the very latest Handbook of Chemistry and
Physics or the complete 1972 set of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica. His father had tried to block Harry off from
seeing the till displays but Harry figured his father must have
spent at least a thousand pounds. Harry had said to his
father that he would pay him back as soon as he figured out how to
convert wizarding gold into Muggle money, and his father had told
him to go jump in a lake.
And then his father had asked him Do you think I bought you
enough books? It was quite clear what answer Dad wanted to
hear.
Harry's throat was hoarse, for some reason. "You can never have
enough books," he recited the Verres family motto, and his father
knelt down and gave him a quick, firm embrace. "But you
certainly tried," Harry said, and felt himself choking up
again. "It was a really, really, really good try."
His Dad straightened. "So..." he said. "Do you see a
Platform Nine and ThreeQuarters?"
King's Cross Station was huge and busy, with walls and floors
paved with ordinary dirtstained tiles. It was full of ordinary
people hurrying about their ordinary business, having ordinary
conversations which generated lots and lots of ordinary noise.
King's Cross Station had a Platform Nine (which they were standing
on) and a Platform Ten (right nearby) but there was nothing between
Platform Nine and Platform Ten except a thin, unpromising barrier
wall. A great skylight overhead let in plenty of light to
illuminate the total lack whatsoever of any Platform Nine and
ThreeQuarters.
Harry stared around until his eyes watered, thinking, come
on, magesight, come on, magesight, but absolutely nothing
appeared to him. He thought about taking out his wand and waving
it, but Professor McGonagall had warned him against using his wand.
Plus if there was another shower of multicoloured sparks that might
lead to being arrested for setting off fireworks inside a train
station. And that was assuming his wand didn't decide to do
something else, like blowing up all of King's Cross. Harry had only
lightly skimmed his schoolbooks (though that skim was quite bizarre
enough) in a very quick effort to determine what sort of science
books to buy over the next 48 hours.
Well, he had  Harry glanced at his watch  one whole hour to
figure it out, since he was supposed to be on the train at eleven.
Maybe this was the equivalent of an IQ test and the stupid kids
couldn't become wizards. (And the amount of extra time you gave
yourself would determine your Conscientiousness, which was the
second most important factor in scholarly success.)
"I'll figure it out," Harry said to his waiting parents. "It's
probably some sort of test thingy."
His father frowned. "Hm... maybe look for a trail of mixed
footprints on the ground, leading somewhere that doesn't seem to
make sense "
"Dad!" Harry said. "Stop that! I haven't even
tried to figure it out on my own!" It was a very good
suggestion, too, which was worse.
"Sorry," his father apologised.
"Ah..." Harry's mother said. "I don't think they would do that
to a student, do you? Are you sure Professor McGonagall didn't tell
you anything?"
"Maybe she was distracted," Harry said without thinking.
"Harry!" hissed his father and mother in unison.
"What did you do?"
"I, um " Harry swallowed. "Look, we don't have time for this
now "
"Harry!"
"I mean it! We don't have time for this now! Because it's a
really long story and I've got to figure out how to get to
school!"
His mother had a hand over her face. "How bad was it?"
"I, ah," I can't talk about that for reasons of National
Security, "about half as bad as the Incident with the Science
Project?"
"Harry!"
"I, er, oh look there are some people with an owl I'll go ask
them how to get in!" and Harry ran away from his parents towards
the family of fiery redheads, his trunk automatically slithering
behind him.
The plump woman looked to him as he arrived. "Hello, dear. First
time at Hogwarts? Ron's new, too " and then she peered closely at
him. "Harry Potter?"
Four boys and a redheaded girl and an owl all swung around and
then froze in place.
"Oh, come on!" Harry protested. He'd been planning to
go as Harry Verres at least until he got to Hogwarts. "I bought a
sweatband and everything! How come you know who I am?"
"Yes," Harry's father said, coming up behind him with long easy
strides, "how do you know who he is?" His voice indicated
a certain dread.
"Your picture was in the newspapers," said one of two
identicallooking twins.
"HARRY!"
"Dad! It's not like that! It's 'cause I defeated the
Dark Lord YouKnowWho when I was one year old!"
"WHAT?"
"Mum can explain."
"WHAT?"
"Ah... Michael dear, there are certain things I thought it would
be best not to bother you with until now "
"Excuse me," Harry said to the redheaded family who were all
staring at him, "but it would be quite extremely helpful if you
could tell me how to get to Platform Nine and Three Quarters
right now."
"Ah..." said the woman. She raised a hand and pointed at the
wall between platforms. "Just walk straight at the barrier between
platforms nine and ten. Don't stop and don't be scared you'll crash
into it, that's very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if
you're nervous."
"And whatever you do, don't think of an elephant."
"George! Ignore him, Harry dear, there's no reason not
to think of an elephant."
"I'm Fred, Mum, not George "
"Thanks!" Harry said and took off at a run towards the barrier

Wait a minute, it wouldn't work unless he believed in
it?
It was at times like this that Harry hated his mind for actually
working fast enough to realise that this was a case where "resonant
doubt" applied, that is, if he'd started out thinking that he would
go through the barrier he'd have been fine, only now he was worried
about whether he sufficiently believed he'd go through the
barrier, which meant that he actually was worried about
crashing into it 
"Harry! Get back here, you have some explaining to
do!" That was his Dad.
Harry shut his eyes and ignored everything he knew about
justified credibility and just tried to believe really
hard that he'd go through the barrier and 
 the sounds around him changed.
Harry opened his eyes and stumbled to a halt, feeling vaguely
dirtied by having made a deliberate effort to believe
something.
He was standing in a bright, openair platform next to a single
huge train, fourteen long carriages headed up by a massive
scarletmetal steam engine with a tall chimney that promised death
to air quality. The platform was already lightly crowded (even
though Harry was a full hour early); dozens of children and their
parents swarmed around benches, tables, and various hawkers and
stalls.
It went entirely without saying that there was no such place in
King's Cross Station and no room to hide it.
Okay, so either (a) I just teleported somewhere else
entirely (b) they can fold space like no one's business or (c) they
are simply ignoring all the rules.
There was a slithering sound behind him, and Harry turned around
to observe that his trunk had indeed followed him on its small
clawed tentacles. Apparently, for magical purposes, his luggage had
also managed to believe with sufficient strength to pass through
the barrier. That was actually a little disturbing when Harry
started thinking about it.
A moment later, the youngestlooking redhaired boy came through
the iron archway (iron archway?) at a run, pulling his trunk behind
him on a lead and nearly crashing into Harry. Harry, feeling stupid
for having stayed around, quickly began moving away from the
landing area, and the redhaired boy followed him, yanking hard on
his trunk's lead in order to keep up. A moment later, a white owl
fluttered through the archway and came to rest on the boy's
shoulder.
"Cor," said the redhaired boy, "are you really Harry
Potter?"
Not this again. "I have no logical way of knowing that
for certain. My parents raised me to believe that my name
was Harry James PotterEvansVerres, and many people here have told
me that I look like my parents, I mean my other parents,
but," Harry frowned, realising, "for all I know, there
could easily be spells to polymorph a child into a specified
appearance "
"Er, what, mate?"
Not headed for Ravenclaw, I take it. "Yes, I'm Harry
Potter."
"I'm Ron Weasley," said the tall skinny freckled longnosed kid,
and stuck out a hand, which Harry politely shook as they walked.
The owl gave Harry an oddly measured and courteous hoot (actually
more of an eehhhhh sound, which surprised Harry).
At this point Harry realised the potential for imminent
catastrophe. "Just a second," he said to Ron, and opened one of the
drawers of his trunk, the one that if he recalled correctly was for
Winter Clothes  it was  and then he found the lightest scarf he
owned, underneath his winter coat. Harry took off his sweatband,
and just as quickly unfolded the scarf and tied it around his face.
It was a little hot, especially in the summer, but Harry could live
with that.
Then he shut that drawer and pulled out another drawer and drew
forth black wizarding robes, which he shrugged over his head, now
that he was out of Muggle territory.
"There," Harry said. The sound came out slightly muffled through
the scarf over his face. He turned to Ron. "How do I look? Stupid,
I know, but am I identifiable as Harry Potter?"
"Er," Ron said. He closed his mouth, which had been open. "Not
really, Harry."
"Very good," Harry said. "However, so as not to obviate the
point of the whole exercise, you will henceforth address me as,"
Verres might not work anymore, "Mr. Spoo."
"Okay, Harry," Ron said uncertainly.
The Force is not particularly strong in this one.
"Call... me... Mister... Spoo."
"Okay, Mister Spoo " Ron stopped. "I can't do that, it makes me
feel stupid."
That's not just a feeling. "Okay. You pick a
name."
"Mr. Cannon," Ron said at once. "For the Chudley Cannons."
"Ah..." Harry knew he was going to terribly regret asking this.
"Who or what are the Chudley Cannons?"
"Who're the Chudley Cannons? Only the most brilliant
team in the whole history of Quidditch! Sure, they finished at the
bottom of the league last year, but "
"What's Quidditch?"
Asking this was also a mistake.
"So let me get this straight," Harry said as it seemed that
Ron's explanation (with associated hand gestures) was winding down.
"Catching the Snitch is worth one hundred and fifty
points?"
"Yeah "
"How many tenpoint goals does one side usually score
not counting the Snitch?"
"Um, maybe fifteen or twenty in professional games "
"That's just wrong. That violates every possible rule of game
design. Look, the rest of this game sounds like it might make
sense, sort of, for a sport I mean, but you're basically saying
that catching the Snitch overwhelms almost any ordinary point
spread. The two Seekers are up there flying around looking for the
Snitch and usually not interacting with anyone else, spotting the
Snitch first is going to be mostly luck "
"It's not luck!" protested Ron. "You've got to keep your eyes
moving in the right pattern "
"That's not interactive, there's no backandforth with
the other player and how much fun is it to watch someone incredibly
good at moving their eyes? And then whichever Seeker gets lucky
swoops in and grabs the Snitch and makes everyone else's work moot.
It's like someone took a real game and grafted on this pointless
extra position so that you could be the Most Important Player
without needing to really get involved or learn the rest of it. Who
was the first Seeker, the King's idiot son who wanted to play
Quidditch but couldn't understand the rules?" Actually, now that
Harry thought about it, that seemed like a surprisingly good
hypothesis. Put him on a broomstick and tell him to catch the shiny
thing...
Ron's face pulled into a scowl. "If you don't like Quidditch,
you don't have to make fun of it!"
"If you can't criticise, you can't optimise. I'm suggesting how
to improve the game. And it's very simple. Get rid of the
Snitch."
"They won't change the game just 'cause you say
so!"
"I am the BoyWhoLived, you know. People will listen
to me. And maybe if I can persuade them to change the game at
Hogwarts, the innovation will spread."
A look of absolute horror was spreading over Ron's face. "But,
but if you get rid of the Snitch, how will anyone know when the
game ends?"
"Buy... a... clock. It would be a lot fairer than
having the game sometimes end after ten minutes and sometimes not
end for hours, and the schedule would be a lot more predictable for
the spectators, too." Harry sighed. "Oh, stop giving me that look
of absolute horror, I probably won't actually take the
time to destroy this pathetic excuse for a national sport and
remake it stronger and smarter in my own image. I've got way, way,
way more important stuff to worry about." Harry looked
thoughtful. "Then again, it wouldn't take much time to
write up the NinetyFive Theses of the Snitchless Reformation and
nail it to a church door "
"Potter," drawled a young boy's voice, "what is that on
your face and what is standing next to you?"
Ron's look of horror was replaced by utter hatred.
"You!"
Harry turned his head; and indeed it was Draco Malfoy, who might
have been forced to wear standard school robes, but was making up
for that with a trunk looking at least as magical and far more
elegant than Harry's own, decorated in silver and emeralds and
bearing what Harry guessed to be the Malfoy family crest, a
beautiful fanged serpent over crossed ivory wands.
"Draco!" Harry said. "Er, or Malfoy if you prefer, though that
kind of sounds like Lucius to me. I'm glad to see you're doing so
well after, um, our last meeting. This is Ron Weasley. And I'm
trying to go incognito, so call me, eh," Harry looked down at his
robes, "Mister Black."
"Harry!" hissed Ron. "You can't use that
name!"
Harry blinked. "Why not?" It sounded nicely dark, like
an international man of mystery 
"I'd say it's a fine name," said Draco, "but it belongs
to the Noble and Most Ancient House of Black. I'll call you Mr.
Silver."
"You get away from... from Mr. Gold," Ron said coldly,
and took a forward step. "He doesn't need to talk to the likes of
you!"
Harry raised a placating hand. "I'll go by Mr. Bronze, thanks
for the naming schema. And, Ron, um," Harry struggled to find a way
to say this, "I'm glad you're so... enthusiastic about protecting
me, but I don't particularly mind talking to Draco "
This was apparently the last straw for Ron, who spun on Harry
with eyes now aflame with outrage. "What? Do you
know who this is?"
"Yes, Ron," Harry said, "you may remember that I called him
Draco without him needing to introduce himself."
Draco sniggered. Then his eyes lit on the white owl on Ron's
shoulder. "Oh, what's this?" Draco said in a drawl rich
with malice. "Where's the famous Weasley family rat?"
"Buried in the backyard," Ron said coldly.
"Aw, how sad. Pot... ah, Mr. Bronze, I should mention that the
Weasley family is widely agreed to have the best pet story
ever. Want to tell it, Weasley?"
Ron's face contorted. "You wouldn't think it was funny if it
happened to your family!"
"Oh," Draco purred, "but it wouldn't ever happen to the
Malfoys."
Ron's hands clenched into fists 
"That's enough," Harry said, putting as much quiet authority
into the voice as he could manage. It was clear that whatever this
was about, it was a painful memory for the redhaired kid. "If Ron
doesn't want to talk about it, he doesn't have to talk about it,
and I'd ask that you not talk about it either."
Draco turned a surprised look on Harry, and Ron nodded. "That's
right, Harry! I mean Mr. Bronze! You see what kind of person he is?
Now tell him to go away!"
Harry counted to ten inside his head, which for him was a very
quick 12345678910  an odd habit left over from the age of
five when his mother had first instructed him to do it, and Harry
had reasoned that his way was faster and ought to be just as
effective. "I'm not telling him to go away," Harry said calmly.
"He's welcome to talk to me if he wants."
"Well, I don't intend to hang around with anyone who hangs
around with Draco Malfoy," Ron announced coldly.
Harry shrugged. "That's up to you. I don't intend to
let anyone say who I can and can't hang around with." Silently
chanting, please go away, please go away...
Ron's face went blank with surprise, like he'd actually expected
that line to work. Then Ron spun about, yanked his luggage's lead
and stormed off down the platform.
"If you didn't like him," Draco said curiously, "why didn't you
just walk away?"
"Um... his mother helped me figure out how to get to this
platform from the King's Cross Station, so it was kind of hard to
tell him to get lost. And it's not that I hate this Ron
guy," Harry said, "I just, just..." Harry searched for words.
"Don't see any reason for him to exist?" offered Draco.
"Pretty much."
"Anyway, Potter... if you really were raised by Muggles " Draco
paused here, as if waiting for a denial, but Harry didn't say
anything " then you mightn't know what it's like to be famous.
People want to take up all of our time. You have
to learn to say no."
Harry nodded, putting a thoughtful look on his face. "That
sounds like good advice."
"If you try to be nice, you just end up spending the most time
with the pushiest ones. Decide who you want to spend time
with and make everyone else leave. You're just getting here,
Potter, so everyone's going to judge you by who they see you with,
and you don't want to be seen with the likes of Ron Weasley."
Harry nodded again. "If you don't mind my asking, how did you
recognise me?"
"Mister Bronze," Draco drawled, "I have met
you, remember. I saw someone going around with a scarf wrapped
around his head, looking absolutely ridiculous. So I took a
guess."
Harry bowed his head, accepting the compliment. "I'm
terribly sorry about that," Harry said. "Our first
meeting, I mean. I didn't mean to embarrass you in front of
Lucius."
Draco waved it off while giving Harry an odd look. "I just wish
Father could have come in while you were flattering
me " Draco laughed. "But thank you for what you
said to Father. If not for that, I might've had a harder time
explaining."
Harry swept a deeper bow. "And thank you for
reciprocating with what you said to Professor McGonagall."
"You're welcome. Though one of the assistants must've sworn her
closest friend to absolute secrecy, because Father says there're
weird rumors going around, like you and I got in a fight
or something."
"Ouch," Harry said, wincing. "I'm really sorry "
"No, we're used to it, Merlin knows there's lots of rumors about
the Malfoy family already."
Harry nodded. "I'm glad to hear you're not in trouble."
Draco smirked. "Father has, um, a refined sense of
humor, but he does understand making friends. He
understands it very well. He made me repeat that before I
went to bed every night for the last month, 'I will make friends at
Hogwarts.' When I explained everything to him and he saw that's
what I was doing, he bought me an icecream."
Harry's jaw dropped. "You managed to spin that into an
icecream?"
Draco nodded, looking every bit as smug as the feat deserved.
"Well, father knew what I was doing, of course, but he's
the one who taught me how to do it, and if I grin the
right way while I'm doing it, that makes it a fatherson
thing and then he has to buy me an icecream or I'll give
him this sort of sad look, like I think I must have disappointed
him."
Harry eyed Draco calculatingly, sensing the presence of another
master. "You've had lessons on how to manipulate
people?"
"Of course," Draco said proudly. "I'm a Malfoy. Father
bought me tutors."
"Wow," Harry said. Reading Robert Cialdini's Influence
Science and Practice probably didn't stack up very high
compared to that (though it was still one heck of a book). "Your
dad is almost as awesome as my dad."
Draco's eyebrows rose loftily. "Oh? And what does your
father do?"
"He buys me books."
Draco considered this. "That doesn't sound very impressive."
"You had to be there. Anyway, I'm glad to hear all that. The way
Lucius was looking at you, I thought he was going to ccrucify
you."
"My father really loves me," Draco said firmly. "He wouldn't
ever do that."
"Um..." Harry said. He remembered the blackrobed, whitehaired
figure of elegance that had stormed through Madam Malkin's,
wielding that beautiful, deadly silverhandled cane. It wasn't easy
to visualise him as a doting father. "Don't take this the wrong
way, but how do you know that?"
"Huh?" It was clear that this was a question Draco did not
commonly ask himself.
"I ask the fundamental question of rationality Why do you
believe what you believe? What do you think you know and how do you
think you know it? What makes you think Lucius wouldn't sacrifice
you the same way he'd sacrifice anything else for power?"
Draco shot Harry another odd look. "Just what do you
know about Father?"
"Um... seat on the Wizengamot, seat on Hogwarts' Board of
Governors, incredibly wealthy, has the ear of Minister Fudge, has
the confidence of Minister Fudge, probably has some highly
embarrassing photos of Minister Fudge, most prominent blood purist
now that the Dark Lord's gone, former Death Eater who was found to
have the Dark Mark but got off by claiming to be under the Imperius
Curse, which was ridiculously implausible and pretty much everyone
knew it... evil with a capital 'E' and a born killer... I think
that's it."
Draco's eyes had narrowed to slits. "McGonagall told you that,
did she."
"No, she wouldn't say anything to me about Lucius
afterwards, except to stay away from him. So during the Incident at
the Potions Shop, while Professor McGonagall was busy yelling at
the shopkeeper and trying to get everything under control, I
grabbed one of the customers and asked them about
Lucius."
Draco's eyes were wide again. "Did you really?"
Harry gave Draco a puzzled look. "If I lied the first time, I'm
not going to tell you the truth just because you ask twice."
There was a certain pause as Draco absorbed this.
"You're so completely going to be in Slytherin."
"I'm so completely going to be in Ravenclaw, thank you very
much. I only want power so I can get books."
Draco giggled. "Yeah, right. Anyway... to answer what you
asked..." Draco took a deep breath, and his face turned serious.
"Father once missed a Wizengamot vote for me. I was on a broom and
I fell off and broke a lot of ribs. It really hurt. I'd never hurt
that much before and I thought I was going to die. So Father missed
this really important vote, because he was there by my bed at St.
Mungo's, holding my hands and promising me that I was going to be
okay."
Harry glanced away uncomfortably, then, with an effort, forced
himself to look back at Draco. "Why are you telling me
that? It seems sort of... private..."
Draco gave Harry a serious look. "One of my tutors once said
that people form close friendships by knowing private things about
each other, and the reason most people don't make close friends is
because they're too embarrassed to share anything really important
about themselves." Draco turned his palms out invitingly. "Your
turn?"
Knowing that Draco's hopeful face had probably been drilled into
him by months of practice did not make it any less effective, Harry
observed. Actually it did make it less effective,
but unfortunately not ineffective. The same could be said
of Draco's clever use of reciprocation pressure for an unsolicited
gift, a technique which Harry had read about in his social
psychology books (one experiment had shown that an unconditional
gift of $5 was twice as effective as a conditional offer of $50 in
getting people to fill out surveys). Draco had made an unsolicited
gift of a confidence, and now invited Harry to offer a confidence
in return... and the thing was, Harry did feel pressured.
Refusal, Harry was certain, would be met with a look of sad
disappointment, and maybe a small amount of contempt indicating
that Harry had lost points.
"Draco," Harry said, "just so you know, I recognise exactly what
you're doing right now. My own books called it
reciprocation and they talk about how giving someone a
straight gift of two Sickles was found to be twice as effective as
offering them twenty Sickles in getting them to do what you
want..." Harry trailed off.
Draco was looking sad and disappointed. "It's not meant as a
trick, Harry. It's a real way of becoming friends."
Harry held up a hand. "I didn't say I wasn't going to respond. I
just need time to pick something that's private but just as
nondamaging. Let's say... I wanted you to know that I can't be
rushed into things." A pause to reflect could go a long way in
defusing the power of a lot of compliance techniques, once you
learned to recognise them for what they were.
"All right," Draco said. "I'll wait while you come up with
something. Oh, and please take off the scarf while you say it."
Simple but effective.
And Harry couldn't help but notice how clumsy, awkward,
graceless his attempt at resisting manipulation / saving face /
showing off had appeared compared to Draco. I need those
tutors.
"All right," Harry said after a time. "Here's mine." He glanced
around and then rolled the scarf back up over his face, exposing
everything but the scar. "Um... it sounds like you can really rely
on your father. I mean... if you talk to him seriously, he'll
always listen to you and take you seriously."
Draco nodded.
"Sometimes," Harry said, and swallowed. This was surprisingly
hard, but then it was meant to be. "Sometimes I wish my own Dad was
like yours." Harry's eyes flinched away from Draco's face, more or
less automatically, and then Harry forced himself to look back at
Draco.
Then it hit Harry what on Earth he'd just said, and
Harry hastily added, "Not that I wish my Dad was a flawless
instrument of death like Lucius, I only mean taking me seriously
"
"I understand," Draco said with a smile. "There... now doesn't
it feel like we're a little closer to being friends?"
Harry nodded. "Yeah. It does, actually. Um... no offence, but
I'm going to put on my disguise again, I really don't want
to deal with "
"I understand."
Harry rolled the scarf back down over his face.
"My father takes all his friends seriously," Draco said. "That's
why he has lots of friends. You should meet him."
"I'll think about it," Harry said in a neutral voice. He shook
his head in wonder. "So you really are his one weak point.
Huh."
Now Draco was giving Harry a really odd look. "You want
to go get something to drink and find somewhere to sit down?"
Harry realised he had been standing in one place for too long,
and stretched himself, trying to crick his back. "Sure."
The platform was starting to fill up now, but there was still a
quieter area on the far side away from the red steam engine. Along
the way they passed a stall containing a bald, bearded man offering
newspapers and comic books and stacked neongreen cans.
The stallholder was, in fact, leaning back and drinking out of
one of the neongreen cans at the exact point when he spotted the
refined and elegant Draco Malfoy approaching along with a
mysterious boy looking incredibly stupid with a scarf tied over his
face, causing the stallholder to experience a sudden coughing fit
in middrink and dribble a large amount of neongreen liquid onto
his beard.
"'Scuse me," Harry said, "but what is that stuff,
exactly?"
"ComedTea," said the stallholder. "If you drink it, something
surprising is bound to happen which makes you spill it on yourself
or someone else. But it's charmed to vanish just a few seconds
later " Indeed the stain on his beard was already
disappearing.
"How droll," said Draco. "How very, very droll. Come, Mr.
Bronze, let's go find another "
"Hold on," Harry said.
"Oh come on! That's just, just juvenile!"
"No, I'm sorry Draco, I have to investigate this. What
happens if I drink ComedTea while doing my best to keep the
conversation completely serious?"
The stallholder smiled mysteriously. "Who knows? A friend walks
by in a frog costume? Something unexpected is bound to happen
"
"No. I'm sorry. I just don't believe it. That violates my
muchabused suspension of disbelief on so many levels I don't even
have the language to describe it. There is, there is just no
way a bloody drink can manipulate reality to produce
comedy setups, or I'm going to give up and retire to the
Bahamas "
Draco groaned. "Are we really going to do this?"
"You don't have to drink it but I have to investigate.
Have to. How much?"
"Five Knuts the can," the stallholder said.
"Five Knuts? You can sell realitymanipulating fizzy
drinks for five Knuts the can?" Harry reached into his
pouch, said "four Sickles, four Knuts", and slapped them down on
the counter. "Two dozen cans please."
"I'll also take one," Draco sighed, and started to reach for his
pockets.
Harry shook his head rapidly. "No, I've got this, doesn't count
as a favor either, I want to see if it works for you too." He took
a can from the stack now placed on the counter and tossed it to
Draco, then started feeding his pouch. The pouch's Widening Lip ate
the cans accompanied by small burping noises, which wasn't exactly
helping to restore Harry's faith that he would someday discover a
reasonable explanation for all this.
Twentytwo burps later, Harry had the last purchased can in his
hand, Draco was looking at him expectantly, and the two of them
pulled the ring at the same time.
Harry rolled up his scarf to expose his mouth, and they tilted
their heads back and drank the ComedTea.
It somehow tasted bright green  extrafizzy and limer
than lime.
Aside from that, nothing else happened.
Harry looked at the stallholder, who was watching them
benevolently.
All right, if this guy just took advantage of a natural
accident to sell me twentyfour cans of nothing, I'm going
to applaud his creative entrepreneurial spirit and then kill
him.
"It doesn't always happen immediately," the stallholder said.
"But it's guaranteed to happen once per can, or your money
back."
Harry took another long drink.
Once again, nothing happened.
Maybe I should just chug the whole thing as fast as
possible... and hope my stomach doesn't explode from all the carbon
dioxide, or that I don't burp while drinking it...
No, he could afford to be a little patient. But
honestly, Harry didn't see how this was going to work. You couldn't
go up to someone and say "Now I'm going to surprise you" or "And
now I'm going to tell you the punchline of the joke, and it'll be
really funny." It ruined the shock value. In Harry's state of
mental preparedness, Lucius Malfoy could have walked past in a
ballerina outfit and it wouldn't have made him do a proper
spittake. Just what sort of wacky shenanigan was the universe
supposed to cough up now?
"Anyway, let's sit down," Harry said. He prepared to swig
another drink and started towards the distant seating area, which
put him at the right angle to glance back and see the portion of
the stall's newspaper stand that was devoted to a newspaper called
The Quibbler, which was showing the following
headline
BOYWHOLIVED GETS
DRACO MALFOY PREGNANT
"Gah!" screamed Draco as bright green liquid sprayed
all over him from Harry's direction. Draco turned to Harry with
fire in his eyes and grabbed his own can. "You son of a mudblood!
Let's see how you like being spat upon!" Draco took a
deliberate swig from the can just as his own eyes caught sight of
the headline.
In sheer reflex action, Harry tried to block his face as the
spray of liquid flew in his direction. Unfortunately he blocked
using the hand containing the ComedTea, sending the rest of the
green liquid to splash out over his shoulder.
Harry stared at the can in his hand even as he went on choking
and spluttering and the green colour started to vanish from Draco's
robes.
Then he looked up and stared at the newspaper headline.
BOYWHOLIVED GETS
DRACO MALFOY PREGNANT
Harry's lips opened and said, "buhbluhbuhbuh..."
Too many competing objections, that was the problem. Every time
Harry tried to say "But we're only eleven!" the objection "But men
can't get pregnant!" demanded first priority and was then run over
by "But there's nothing between us, really!"
Then Harry looked down at the can in his hand again.
He was feeling a deepseated desire to run away screaming at the
top of his lungs until he dropped from lack of oxygen, and the only
thing stopping him was that he had once read that outright panic
was the sign of a truly important scientific problem.
Harry snarled, threw the can violently into a nearby rubbish
bin, and stalked back over to the stall. "One copy of The
Quibbler, please." Harry paid over four more Knuts, retrieved
another can of ComedTea from his pouch, and then stalked over to
the picnic area with the blondhaired boy, who was staring at his
own can with an expression of frank admiration.
"I take it back," Draco said, "that was pretty good."
"Hey, Draco, you know what I bet is even better for becoming
friends than exchanging secrets? Committing murder."
"I have a tutor who says that," Draco allowed. He reached inside
his robes and scratched himself with an easy, natural motion.
"Who've you got in mind?"
Harry slammed The Quibbler down hard on the picnic
table. "The guy who came up with this headline."
Draco groaned. "Not a guy. A girl. A tenyearold girl,
can you believe it? She went nuts after her mother died and her
father, who owns this newspaper, is convinced that she's a
seer, so when he doesn't know he asks Luna Lovegood and believes
anything she says."
Not really thinking about it, Harry pulled the ring on his next
can of ComedTea and prepared to drink. "Are you kidding me? That's
even worse than Muggle journalism, which I would have thought was
physically impossible."
Draco snarled. "She has some sort of perverse obsession about
the Malfoys, too, and her father is politically opposed to us so he
prints every word. As soon as I'm old enough I'm going to rape
her."
Green liquid spurted out of Harry's nostrils, soaking into the
scarf still covering that area. ComedTea and lungs did not mix,
and Harry spent the next few seconds frantically coughing.
Draco looked at him sharply. "Something wrong?"
It was at this point that Harry came to the sudden realisation
that (a) the sounds coming from the rest of the train platform had
turned into more of a blurred white noise at around the same time
Draco had reached inside his robes, and (b) when he had discussed
committing murder as a bonding method, there had been exactly one
person in the conversation who'd thought they were joking.
Right. Because he seemed like such a normal kid.
And he is a normal kid, he is just what you'd expect
a baseline male child to be like if Darth Vader were his doting
father.
"Yes, well," Harry coughed, oh god how was he going to get out
of this conversational wedge, "I was just surprised at how you were
willing to discuss it so openly, you didn't seem worried about
getting caught or anything."
Draco snorted. "Are you joking? Luna Lovegood's word
against mine?"
Holy crap on a holy stick. "There's no such thing as magical
truth detection, I take it?" Or DNA testing... yet.
Draco looked around. His eyes narrowed. "That's right, you don't
know anything. Look, I'll explain things to you, I mean the way it
really works, just like you were already in Slytherin and asked me
the same question. But you've got to swear not to say anything
about it."
"I swear," Harry said.
"The courts use Veritaserum, but it's a joke really, you just
get yourself Obliviated before you testify and then claim the other
person was MemoryCharmed with a fake memory. Of course if you're
just some normal person, the courts presume in favor of
Obliviation, not False Memory Charms. But the court has discretion,
and if I'm involved then it impinges on the honor of a
Noble House, so it goes to the Wizengamot, where Father has the
votes. After I'm found not guilty the Lovegood family has to pay
reparations for tarnishing my honor. And they know from the start
that's how it'll go, so they'll just keep their mouths shut."
A cold chill was coming over Harry, a chill that came with
instructions to keep his voice and face normal. Note to self
Overthrow government of magical Britain at earliest
convenience.
Harry coughed again to clear his throat. "Draco, please please
please don't take this the wrong way, my word is my bond,
but like you said I could be in Slytherin and I really want to ask
for informational purposes, so what would happen theoretically
speaking if I did testify that I'd heard you plan
it?"
"Then if I was anyone other than a Malfoy, I'd be in trouble,"
Draco answered smugly. "Since I am a Malfoy... Father has
the votes. And afterwards he'd crush you... well, I guess not
easily, since you are the BoyWhoLived, but Father is
pretty good at that sort of thing." Draco frowned. "'Sides,
you talked about murdering her, why weren't you worried
about me testifying after she turns up dead?"
How, oh how did my day go this wrong? Harry's mouth was
already moving faster than he could think. "That's when I thought
she was older! I don't know how it works here,
but in Muggle Britain the courts would get a lot more upset about
someone killing a child "
"That makes sense," Draco said, still looking a bit suspicious.
"But anyway, it's always smarter if it doesn't go to the Aurors at
all. If we're careful only to do things that Healing Charms can
fix, we can just Obliviate her afterwards and then do it all again
next week." Then the blondehaired boy giggled, a youthful
highpitched sound. "Though just imagine her saying she'd been done
by Draco Malfoy and the BoyWhoLived, not even
Dumbledore would believe her."
I am going to tear apart your pathetic little magical
remnant of the Dark Ages into pieces smaller than its constituent
atoms. "Actually, can we hold off on that? After I found out
that headline came from a girl a year younger than me, I had a
different thought for my revenge."
"Huh? Do tell," Draco said, and started to take another swig of
his ComedTea.
Harry didn't know if the enchantment worked more than once per
can, but he did know he could avoid the blame, so he was
careful to time it exactly right
"I was thinking someday I'm going to marry that
woman."
Draco made a horrid kersplutching sound and leaked green fluid
out the corners of his mouth like a broken car radiator. "Are
you nuts?"
"Quite the opposite, I'm so sane it burns like ice."
"You've got weirder taste than a Lestrange," Draco said,
sounding halfadmiring about it. "And I suppose you want her all to
yourself, huh?"
"Yep. I can owe you a favor for it "
Draco waved it off. "Nah, this one's free."
Harry stared down at the can in his hand, the coldness settling
into his blood. Charming, happy, generous with his favors to his
friends, Draco wasn't a psychopath. That was the sad and awful
part, knowing human psychology well enough to know that
Draco wasn't a monster. There had been ten thousand
societies over the history of the world where this conversation
could have happened. No, the world would have been a very different
place indeed, if it took an evil mutant to say
what Draco had said. It was very simple, very human, it was the
default if nothing else intervened. To Draco, his enemies weren't
people.
And in the slowed time of this slowed country, here and now as
in the darknessbeforedawn prior to the Age of Reason, the son of
a sufficiently powerful noble would simply take for granted that he
was above the law, at least when it came to some peasant girl.
There were places in Muggleland where it was still the same way,
countries where that sort of nobility still existed and still
thought like that, or even grimmer lands where it wasn't just the
nobility. It was like that in every place and time that didn't
descend directly from the Enlightenment. A line of descent, it
seemed, which didn't quite include magical Britain, for all that
there had been crosscultural contamination of things like
ringpull drinks cans.
And if Draco doesn't change his mind about wanting revenge,
and I don't throw away my own chance at happiness in life to marry
some poor crazy girl, then all I've just bought is time, and not
too much of it...
For one girl. Not for others.
I wonder how difficult it would be to just make a list of
all the top blood purists and kill them.
They'd tried exactly that during the French Revolution, more or
less  make a list of all the enemies of Progress and remove
everything above the neck  and it hadn't worked out well from what
Harry recalled. Maybe he needed to dust off some of those history
books his father had bought him, and see if what had gone wrong
with the French Revolution was something easy to fix.
Harry gazed up at the sky, and at the pale shape of the Moon,
visible this morning through the cloudless air.
So the world is broken and flawed and insane, and cruel and
bloody and dark. This is news? You always knew that,
anyway...
"You're looking all serious," Draco said. "Let me guess, your
Muggle parents told you that this sort of thing was bad."
Harry nodded, not quite trusting his voice.
"Well, like Father says, there may be four houses, but in the
end everyone belongs to either Slytherin or Hufflepuff. And
frankly, you're not on the Hufflepuff end. If you decide to side
with the Malfoys under the table... our power and your
reputation... you could get away with things even I can't
do. Want to try it for a while? See what it's like?"
Aren't we a clever little serpent. Eleven years old and
already coaxing your prey from hiding...
Harry thought, considered, chose his weapon. "Draco, you want to
explain the whole blood purity thing to me? I'm sort of new."
A wide smile crossed Draco's face. "You really should meet
Father and ask him, you know, he's our leader."
"Give me the thirtysecond version."
"Okay," Draco said. He drew in a deep breath, and his voice grew
slightly lower, and took on a cadence. "Our powers have grown
weaker, generation by generation, as the mudblood taint increases.
Where Salazar and Godric and Rowena and Helga once raised Hogwarts
by their power, creating the Locket and the Sword and the Diadem
and the Cup, no wizard of these faded days has risen to rival them.
We are fading, all fading into Muggles as we interbreed with their
spawn and allow our Squibs to live. If the taint is not checked,
soon our wands will break and all our arts cease, the line of
Merlin will end and the blood of Atlantis fail. Our children will
be left scratching at the dirt to survive like the mere Muggles,
and darkness will cover all the world for ever." Draco took another
swig from his drinks can, looking satisfied; that seemed to be the
whole argument as far as he was concerned.
"Persuasive," Harry said, meaning it descriptively rather than
normatively. It was a standard pattern The Fall from Grace, the
need to guard what purity remained against contamination, the past
sloping upwards and the future sloping only down. And that pattern
also had its counter... "I have to correct you on one
point of fact, though. Your information about the Muggles is a bit
out of date. We aren't exactly scratching at the dirt anymore."
Draco's head snapped around. "What? What do you mean,
we?"
"We. The scientists. The line of Francis Bacon and the blood of
the Enlightenment. Muggles didn't just sit around crying about not
having wands, we have our own powers now, with or without
magic. If all your powers fail then we will all have lost something
very precious, because your magic is the only hint we have as to
how the universe must really work  but you won't be left
scratching at the ground. Your houses will still be cool in summer
and warm in winter, there will still be doctors and medicine.
Science can keep you alive if magic fails. It'd be a tragedy, but
not literally the end of all the light in the world. Just
saying."
Draco had backed up several feet and his face was full of mixed
fear and disbelief. "What in the name of Merlin are you talking
about, Potter?"
"Hey, I listened to your story, won't you listen to
mine?" Clumsy, Harry chided himself, but Draco actually
did stop backing off and seem to listen.
"Anyway," Harry said, "I'm saying that you don't seem to have
been paying much attention to what goes on in the Muggle world."
Probably because the whole wizarding world seemed to regard the
rest of Earth as a slum, deserving around as much news coverage as
the Financial Times awarded to the routine agonies of
Burundi. "All right. Quick check. Have wizards ever been to the
Moon? You know, that thing?" Harry pointed up to that huge and
distant globe.
"What?" Draco said. It was pretty clear the thought
had never occured to the boy. "Go to the  it's just a "
His finger pointed at the little pale thingy in the sky. "You can't
Apparate to somewhere you've never been and how would
anyone get to the Moon in the first place?"
"Hold on," Harry said to Draco, "I'd like to show you a book I
brought with me, I think I remember what box it's in." And Harry
stood up and kneeled down and yanked out the stairs to the cavern
level of his trunk, then tore down the stairs and heaved a box off
another box, coming perilously close to treating his books with
disrespect, and snatched off the box cover and quickly but
carefully pried out a stack of books 
(Harry had inherited the nighmagical Verres ability to remember
where all his books were, even after seeing them just once, which
was rather mysterious considering the lack of any genetic
connection.)
And Harry raced back up the stairs and shoved the staircase back
into the trunk with his heel, and, panting, turned the pages of the
book until he found the picture he wanted to show to Draco.
The one with the white, dry, cratered land, and the suited
people, and the bluewhite globe hanging over it all.
That picture.
The picture, if only one picture in all the world were
to survive.
"That," Harry said, his voice trembling because he
couldn't quite keep the pride out, "is what the Earth looks like
from the Moon."
Draco slowly leaned over. There was a strange expression on his
young face. "If that's a real picture, why isn't it
moving?"
Moving? Oh. "Muggles can do moving pictures but they
need a bigger box to show it, they can't fit them onto single book
pages yet."
Draco's finger moved to one of the suits. "What are those?" His
voice starting to waver.
"Those are human beings. They are wearing suits that cover their
whole bodies to give them air, because there is no air on the
Moon."
"That's impossible," Draco whispered. There was terror in his
eyes, and utter confusion. "No Muggle could ever do that.
How..."
Harry took back the book, flipped the pages until he found what
he saw. "This is a rocket going up. The fire pushes it higher and
higher, until it gets to the Moon." Flipped pages again. "This is a
rocket on the ground. That tiny speck next to it is a person."
Draco gasped. "Going to the Moon cost the equivalent of... probably
around a thousand million Galleons." Draco choked. "And it took the
efforts of... probably more people than live in all of magical
Britain." And when they arrived, they left a plaque that said,
'We came in peace, for all mankind.' Though you're not yet ready to
hear those words, Draco Malfoy...
"You're telling the truth," Draco said slowly. "You wouldn't
fake a whole book just for this  and I can hear it in your voice.
But... but..."
"How, without wands or magic? It's a long story, Draco. Science
doesn't work by waving wands and chanting spells, it works by
knowing how the universe works on such a deep level that you know
exactly what to do in order to make the universe do what you want.
If magic is like casting Imperio on someone to make them
do what you want, then science is like knowing them so well that
you can convince them it was their own idea all along. It's a lot
more difficult than waving a wand, but it works when wands fail,
just like if the Imperius failed you could still try
persuading a person. And Science builds from generation to
generation. You have to really know what you're doing to
do science  and when you really understand something, you can
explain it to someone else. The greatest scientists of one century
ago, the brightest names that are still spoken with reverence,
their powers are as nothing to the greatest scientists of
today. There is no equivalent in science of your lost arts that
raised Hogwarts. In science our powers wax by the year. And we are
beginning to understand and unravel the secrets of life and
inheritance. We'll be able to look at the very blood of which you
spoke, and see what makes you a wizard, and in one or two more
generations, we'll be able to persuade that blood to make all your
children powerful wizards too. So you see, your problem isn't
nearly as bad as it looks, because in a few more decades, science
will be able to solve it for you."
"But..." Draco said. His voice was trembling. "If
Muggles have that kind of power... then... what are
we?"
"No, Draco, that's not it, don't you see? Science taps the power
of human understanding to look at the world and figure out how it
works. It can't fail without humanity itself failing. Your magic
could turn off, and you would hate that, but you would still be
you. You would still be alive to regret it. But because
science rests upon my human intelligence, it is the power that
cannot be removed from me without removing me. Even if the
laws of the universe change on me, so that all my knowledge is
void, I'll just figure out the new laws, as has been done before.
It's not a Muggle thing, it's a human thing, it
just refines and trains the power you use every time you look at
something you don't understand and ask 'Why?' You're of Slytherin,
Draco, don't you see the implication?"
Draco looked up from the book to Harry. His face showed dawning
understanding. "Wizards can learn to use this power."
Very carefully, now... the bait is set, now the hook... "If you
can learn to think of yourself as a human instead of a
wizard then you can train and refine your powers as a
human."
And if that instruction wasn't in every
science curriculum, Draco didn't need to know it, did he?
Draco's eyes were now thoughtful. "You've... already done
this?"
"To some extent," Harry allowed. "My training isn't complete.
Not at eleven. But  my father also bought me tutors, you
see." Sure, they'd been starving grad students, and it had only
been because Harry slept on a 26hour cycle, but leave all that
aside for now...
Slowly, Draco nodded. "You think you can master both
arts, add the powers together, and..." Draco stared at Harry. "Make
yourself Lord of the two worlds?"
Harry gave an evil laugh, it just seemed to come naturally at
that point. "You have to realise, Draco, that the whole world you
know, all of magical Britain, is just one square on a much larger
gameboard. The gameboard that includes places like the Moon, and
the stars in the night sky, which are lights just like the Sun only
unimaginably far away, and things like galaxies that are vastly
huger than the Earth and Sun, things so large that only scientists
can see them and you don't even know they exist. But I really
am Ravenclaw, you know, not Slytherin. I don't want to
rule the universe. I just think it could be more sensibly
organised."
There was awe on Draco's face. "Why are you telling me
this?"
"Oh... there aren't many people who know how to do true
science  understanding something for the very first time, even if
it confuses the hell out of you. Help would be helpful."
Draco stared at Harry with his mouth open.
"But make no mistake, Draco, true science really isn't
like magic, you can't just do it and walk away unchanged like
learning how to say the words of a new spell. The power comes with
a cost, a cost so high that most people refuse to pay it."
Draco nodded at this as though, finally, he'd heard something he
could understand. "And that cost?"
"Learning to admit you're wrong."
"Um," Draco said after the dramatic pause had stretched on for a
while. "You going to explain that?"
"Trying to figure out how something works on that deep level,
the first ninetynine explanations you come up with are wrong. The
hundredth is right. So you have to learn how to admit you're wrong,
over and over and over again. It doesn't sound like much, but it's
so hard that most people can't do science. Always questioning
yourself, always taking another look at things you've always taken
for granted," like having a Snitch in Quidditch, "and every time
you change your mind, you change yourself. But I'm getting way
ahead of myself here. Way ahead of myself. I just want you to
know... I'm offering to share some of my knowledge. If you want.
There's just one condition."
"Uh huh," Draco said. "You know, Father says that when someone
says that to you, it is never a good sign, ever."
Harry nodded. "Now, don't mistake me and think that I'm trying
to drive a wedge between you and your father. It's not about that.
It's just about me wanting to deal with someone my own age, rather
than having this be between me and Lucius. I think your father
would be okay with that too, he knows you have to grow up sometime.
But your moves in our game have to be your own. That's my condition
 that I'm dealing with you, Draco, not your father."
"I've got to go," Draco said. He stood up. "I've got to go off
and think about this."
"Take your time," Harry said.
The sounds of the train platform changed from blurs into murmurs
as Draco wandered off.
Harry slowly exhaled the air he'd been holding in without quite
realising it, and then looked at the watch on his wrist, a simple
mechanical model that his father had bought him in hope it would
work in magic's presence. The secondhand was still ticking, and if
the minute hand was right, then it wasn't quite eleven just yet. He
probably ought to get on the train soon and start looking for
whatsherface, but it seemed worth taking a few minutes first to do
some breathing exercises and see if his blood warmed up again.
But when Harry looked up from his watch, he saw two figures
approaching, looking utterly ridiculous with their faces cloaked by
winter scarves.
"Hello, Mr. Bronze," said one of the masked figures. "Can we
interest you in joining the Order of Chaos?"

Aftermath
Not too long after that, when all that day's fuss had finally
subsided, Draco was bent over a desk with quill in hand. He had a
private room in the Slytherin dungeons, with its own desk and its
own fire  sadly not even he rated a connection to the
Floo system, but at least Slytherin didn't buy into that utter
nonsense about making everyone sleep in dorms. There
weren't many private rooms, you had to be the very best
within the House of the better sort, but that could be taken for
granted with the House of Malfoy.
Dear Father, Draco wrote.
And then he stopped.
Ink slowly dripped from his quill, staining the parchment near
the words.
Draco wasn't stupid. He was young, but his tutors had trained
him well. Draco knew that Potter probably felt a lot more sympathy
towards Dumbledore's faction than Potter was letting on... though
Draco did think Potter could be tempted. But it was crystal clear
that Potter was trying to tempt Draco just as Draco was trying to
tempt him.
And it was also clear that Potter was brilliant, and a whole lot
more than just slightly mad, and playing a vast game that Potter
himself mostly didn't understand, improvised at top speed with the
subtlety of a rampaging nundu. But Potter had managed to choose a
tactic that Draco couldn't just walk away from. He had offered
Draco a part of his own power, gambling that Draco couldn't use it
without becoming more like him. His father had called this an
advanced technique, and had warned Draco that it often didn't
work.
Draco knew he hadn't understood everything that had happened...
but Potter had offered him the chance to play and right
now it was his. And if he blurted the whole thing out, it
would become Father's.
In the end it was as simple as that. The lesser techniques
require the unawareness of the target, or at least their
uncertainty. Flattery has to be plausibly disguised as admiration.
("You should have been in Slytherin" is an old classic, highly
effective on a certain type of person who isn't expecting it, and
if it works you can repeat it.) But when you find someone's
ultimate lever it doesn't matter if they know you know. Potter, in
his mad rush, had guessed a key to Draco's soul. And if Draco knew
that Potter knew it  even if it had been an obvious sort of guess
 that didn't change anything.
So now, for the first time in his life, he had real secrets to
keep. He was playing his own game. There was an obscure pain to it,
but he knew that Father would be proud, and that made it all
right.
Leaving the ink drippings in place  there was a message there,
and one that his father would understand, for they had played the
game of subtleties more than once  Draco wrote out the one
question that really had gnawed at him about the whole affair, the
part that it seemed he ought to understand, but he didn't,
not at all.
Dear Father
Suppose I told you that I met a student at Hogwarts, not
already part of our circle of acquaintances, who called you a
'flawless instrument of death' and said that I was your 'one weak
point'. What would you say about him?
It didn't take long after that for the family owl to bring the
reply.
My beloved son
I would say that you had been so fortunate as to meet
someone who enjoys the intimate confidence of our friend and
valuable ally, Severus Snape.
Draco stared at the letter for a while, and finally threw it
into the fire.

All these worlds are J. K. Rowling's, except Europa. Attempt no
fanfics there.

One alert reviewer asked whether, if Luna is a seer, that means
this is going to be an HPDM bottom!Draco mpreg fic. I regret that
FFN does not allow me any larger font size in which to say
NO. It honestly hadn't occurred to me that Luna
might be a real seer  I'll have to decide whether to run
with that or not  but I think we can all safely assume that if
Luna is a seer, she said something about "light planting a
seed in darkness", and Xenophilius, as always, interpreted this in
rather the wrong way.

"Allow me to warn you that challenging my ingenuity is a
dangerous sort of project, and may tend to make your life a lot
more surreal."

No one had asked for help, that was the problem. They'd just
gone around talking, eating, or staring into the air while their
parents exchanged gossip. For whatever odd reason, no one had been
sitting down reading a book, which meant she couldn't just sit down
next to them and take out her own book. And even when she'd boldly
taken the initiative by sitting down and continuing her third
readthrough of Hogwarts A History, no one had seemed
inclined to sit down next to her.
Aside from helping people with their homework, or anything else
they needed, she really didn't know how to meet people. She didn't
feel like she was a shy person. She thought of herself as
a takecharge sort of girl. And yet, somehow, if there wasn't some
request along the lines of "I can't remember how to do long
division" then it was just too awkward to go up to someone
and say... what? She'd never been able to figure out what. And
there didn't seem to be a standard information sheet, which was
ridiculous. The whole business of meeting people had never seemed
sensible to her. Why did she have to take all the
responsibility herself when there were two people involved? Why
didn't adults ever help? She wished some other girl would just walk
up to her and say, "Hermione, the teacher told me to be
friends with you."
But let it be quite clear that Hermione Granger, sitting alone
on the first day of school in one of the few compartments that had
been empty, in the last carriage of the train, with the compartment
door left open just in case anyone for any reason wanted to talk to
her, was not sad, lonely, gloomy, depressed, despairing,
or obsessing about her problems. She was, rather, rereading
Hogwarts A History for the third time and quite enjoying
it, with only a faint tinge of annoyance in the back of her mind at
the general unreasonableness of the world.
There was the sound of an intertrain door opening, and then
footsteps and an odd slithering sound coming down the hallway of
the train. Hermione laid aside Hogwarts A History and
stood up and stuck her head outside  just in case someone needed
help  and saw a young boy in a wizard's dress robes, probably
first or second year going by his height, and looking quite silly
with a scarf wrapped around his head. A small trunk stood on the
floor next to him. Even as she saw him, he knocked on the door of
another, closed compartment, and he said in a voice only slightly
muffled by the scarf, "Excuse me, can I ask a quick question?"
She didn't hear the answer from inside the compartment, but
after the boy opened the door, she did think she heard him say 
unless she'd somehow misheard  "Does anyone here know the six
quarks or where I can find a firstyear girl named Hermione
Granger?"
After the boy had closed that compartment door, Hermione said,
"Can I help you with something?"
The scarfed face turned to look at her, and the voice said, "Not
unless you can name the six quarks or tell me where to find
Hermione Granger."
"Up, down, strange, charm, truth, beauty, and why are you
looking for her?"
It was hard to tell from this distance, but she thought she saw
the boy grin widely under his scarf. "Ah, so you're a
firstyear girl named Hermione Granger," said that young, muffled
voice. "On the train to Hogwarts, no less." The boy started to walk
towards her and her compartment, and his trunk slithered along
after him. "Technically, all I needed to do was look for
you, but it seems likely that I'm meant to talk to you or invite
you to join my party or get a key magical item from you or find out
that Hogwarts was built over the ruins of an ancient temple or
something. PC or NPC, that is the question?"
Hermione opened her mouth to reply to this, but then she
couldn't think of any possible reply to...
whatever it was she'd just heard, even as the boy walked
over to her, looked inside the compartment, nodded with
satisfaction, and sat down on the bench across from her own. His
trunk scurried in after him, grew to three times its former
diameter and snuggled up next to her own in an oddly disturbing
fashion.
"Please, have a seat," said the boy, "and do please close the
door behind you, if you would. Don't worry, I don't bite anyone who
doesn't bite me first." He was already unwinding the scarf from
around his head.
The imputation that this boy thought she was scared of
him made her hand send the door sliding shut, jamming it into the
wall with unnecessary force. She spun around and saw a young face
with bright, laughing green eyes, and an angry reddark scar set
into his forehead that reminded her of something in the back of her
mind but right now she had more important things to think about. "I
didn't say I was Hermione Granger!"
"I didn't say you said you were Hermione
Granger, I just said you were Hermione Granger. If you're asking
how I know, it's because I know everything. Good evening ladies and
gentlemen, my name is Harry James PotterEvansVerres or Harry
Potter for short, I know that probably doesn't mean anything to
you for a change "
Hermione's mind finally made the connection. The scar on his
forehead, the shape of a lightning bolt. "Harry Potter! You're in
Modern Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the
Dark Arts and Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth
Century." It was actually the very first time in her whole
life that she'd met someone from inside a book,
and it was a rather odd feeling.
The boy blinked three times. "I'm in books? Wait, of
course I'm in books... what a strange thought."
"Goodness, didn't you know?" said Hermione. "I'd have found out
everything I could if it was me."
The boy spoke rather dryly. "Miss Granger, it has been less than
72 hours since I went to Diagon Alley and discovered my claim to
fame. I have spent the last two days buying science books.
Believe me, I intend to find out everything I can." The
boy hesitated. "What do the books say about me?"
Hermione Granger's mind flashed back, she hadn't realised she
would be tested on those books so she'd read them only
once, but it was just a month ago so the material was still fresh
in her mind. "You're the only one who's survived the Killing Curse
so you're called the BoyWhoLived. You were born to James Potter
and Lily Potter formerly Lily Evans on the 31st of July 1980. On
the 31st of October 1981 the Dark Lord HeWhoMustNotBeNamed
though I don't know why not attacked your home. You were found
alive with the scar on your forehead in the ruins of your parents'
house near the burnt remains of YouKnowWho's body. Chief Warlock
Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore sent you off somewhere, no
one knows where. The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts claims
that you survived because of your mother's love and that your scar
contains all of the Dark Lord's magical power and that the centaurs
fear you, but Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth
Century doesn't mention anything like that and Modern
Magical History warns that there are lots of crackpot theories
about you."
The boy's mouth was hanging open. "Were you told to wait for
Harry Potter on the train to Hogwarts, or something like that?"
"No," Hermione said. "Who told you about me?"
"Professor McGonagall and I believe I see why. Do you have an
eidetic memory, Hermione?"
Hermione shook her head. "It's not photographic, I've always
wished it was but I had to read my school books five times over to
memorize them all."
"Really," the boy said in a slightly strangled voice. "I hope
you don't mind if I test that  it's not that I don't believe you,
but as the saying goes, 'Trust, but verify'. No point in wondering
when I can just do the experiment."
Hermione smiled, rather smugly. She so loved tests. "Go
ahead."
The boy stuck a hand into a pouch at his side and said "Magical
Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger". When he withdrew his hand
it was holding the book he'd named.
Instantly Hermione wanted one of those pouches more than she'd
ever wanted anything.
The boy opened the book to somewhere in the middle and looked
down. "If you were making oil of sharpness "
"I can see that page from here, you know!"
The boy tilted the book so that she couldn't see it any more,
and flipped the pages again. "If you were brewing a potion of
spider climbing, what would be the next ingredient you added
after the Acromantula silk?"
"After dropping in the silk, wait until the potion has turned
exactly the shade of the cloudless dawn sky, 8 degrees from the
horizon and 8 minutes before the tip of the sun first becomes
visible. Stir eight times widdershins and once deasil, and then add
eight drams of unicorn bogies."
The boy shut the book with a sharp snap and put the book back
into his pouch, which swallowed it with a small burping noise.
"Well well well well well well. I should like to make you
a proposition, Miss Granger."
"A proposition?" Hermione said suspiciously. Girls weren't
supposed to listen to those.
It was also at this point that Hermione realised the other thing
 well, one of the things  which was odd about the boy. Apparently
people who were in books actually sounded like a
book when they talked. This was quite the surprising discovery.
The boy reached into his pouch and said, "can of pop",
retrieving a bright green cylinder. He held it out to her and said,
"Can I offer you something to drink?"
Hermione politely accepted the fizzy drink. In fact she
was feeling sort of thirsty by now. "Thank you very much,"
Hermione said as she popped the top. "Was that your
proposition?"
The boy coughed. "No," he said. Just as Hermione started to
drink, he said, "I'd like you to help me take over the
universe."
Hermione finished her drink and lowered the can. "No thank you,
I'm not evil."
The boy looked at her in surprise, as though he'd been expecting
some other answer. "Well, I was speaking a bit rhetorically," he
said. "In the sense of the Baconian project, you know, not
political power. 'The effecting of all things possible' and so on.
I want to conduct experimental studies of spells, figure out the
underlying laws, bring magic into the domain of science, merge the
wizarding and Muggle worlds, raise the entire planet's standard of
living, move humanity centuries ahead, discover the secret of
immortality, colonize the Solar System, explore the galaxy, and
most importantly, figure out what the heck is really going on here
because all of this is blatantly impossible."
That sounded a bit more interesting. "And?"
The boy stared at her incredulously. "And? That's not
enough?"
"And what do you want from me?" said Hermione.
"I want you to help me do the research, of course. With your
encyclopedic memory added to my intelligence and rationality, we'll
have the Baconian project finished in no time, where by 'no time' I
mean probably at least thirtyfive years."
Hermione was beginning to find this boy annoying. "I haven't
seen you do anything intelligent. Maybe I'll let you help
me with my research."
There was a certain silence in the compartment.
"So you're asking me to demonstrate my intelligence, then," said
the boy after a long pause.
Hermione nodded.
"I warn you that challenging my ingenuity is a dangerous
project, and tends to make your life a lot more surreal."
"I'm not impressed yet," Hermione said. Unnoticed, the green
drink once again rose to her lips.
"Well, maybe this will impress you," the boy said. He
leaned forward and looked at her intensely. "I've already done a
bit of experimenting and I found out that I don't need the wand, I
can make anything I want happen just by snapping my fingers."
It came just as Hermione was in the middle of swallowing, and
she choked and coughed and expelled the bright green fluid.
Onto her brand new, neverworn witch's robes, on the very first
day of school.
Hermione actually screamed. It was a highpitched sound that
sounded like an air raid siren in the closed compartment. "Eek!
My clothes!"
"Don't panic!" said the boy. "I can fix it for you. Just watch!"
He raised a hand and snapped his fingers.
"You'll " Then she looked down at herself.
The green fluid was still there, but even as she watched, it
started to vanish and fade and within just a few moments, it was
like she'd never spilled anything at herself.
Hermione stared at the boy, who was wearing a rather smug sort
of smile.
Wordless wandless magic! At his age? When he'd only
gotten the schoolbooks three days ago?
Then she remembered what she'd read, and she gasped and flinched
back from him. All the Dark Lord's magical power! In his
scar!
She rose hastily to her feet. "I, I, I need to go the toilet,
wait here all right " she had to find a grownup she had to tell
them 
The boy's smile faded. "It was just a trick, Hermione. I'm
sorry, I didn't mean to scare you."
Her hand halted on the door handle. "A trick?"
"Yes," said the boy. "You asked me to demonstrate my
intelligence. So I did something apparently impossible, which is
always a good way to show off. I can't really do anything
just by snapping my fingers." The boy paused. "At least I don't
think I can, I've never actually tested it
experimentally." The boy raised his hand and snapped his fingers
again. "Nope, no banana."
Hermione was as confused as she'd ever been in her life.
The boy was now smiling again at the look on her face. "I did
warn you that challenging my ingenuity tends to make your
life surreal. Do remember this the next time I warn you about
something."
"But, but," Hermione stammered. "What did you do,
then?"
The boy's gaze took on a measuring, weighing quality that she'd
never seen before from someone her own age. "You think you have
what it takes to be a scientist in your own right, with or without
my help? Then let's see how you investigate a confusing
phenomenon."
"I..." Hermione's mind went blank for a moment. She loved tests
but she'd never had a test like this before. Frantically,
she tried to cast back for anything she'd read about what
scientists were supposed to do. Her mind skipped gears, ground
against itself, and spat back the instructions for doing a science
investigation project
Step 1 Form a hypothesis.
Step 2 Do an experiment to test your hypothesis.
Step 3 Measure the results.
Step 4 Make a cardboard poster.
Step 1 was to form a hypothesis. That meant, try to think of
something that could have happened just now. "All right.
My hypothesis is that you cast a Charm on my robes to make anything
spilled on it vanish."
"All right," said the boy, "is that your answer?"
The shock was wearing off, and Hermione's mind was starting to
work properly. "Wait, that can't be right. I didn't see you touch
your wand or say any spells so how could you have cast a
Charm?"
The boy waited, his face neutral.
"But suppose all the robes come from the store with a Charm
already on them to keep them clean, which would be a
useful sort of Charm for them to have. You found that out by
spilling something on yourself earlier."
Now the boy's eyebrows lifted. "Is that your
answer?"
"No, I haven't done Step 2, 'Do an experiment to test your
hypothesis.'"
The boy closed his mouth again, and began to smile.
Hermione looked at the drinks can, which she'd automatically put
into the cupholder at the window. She took it up and peered inside,
and found that it was around onethird full.
"Well," said Hermione, "the experiment I want to do is to pour
it on my robes and see what happens, and my prediction is that the
stain will disappear. Only if it doesn't work, my robes
will be stained, and I don't want that."
"Do it to mine," said the boy, "that way you don't have to worry
about your robes getting stained."
"But " Hermione said. There was something wrong with
that thinking but she didn't know how to say it exactly.
"I have spare robes in my trunk," said the boy.
"But there's nowhere for you to change," Hermione objected. Then
she thought better of it. "Though I suppose I could leave and close
the door "
"I have somewhere to change in my trunk, too."
Hermione looked at his trunk, which, she was beginning to
suspect, was rather more special than her own.
"All right," Hermione said, "since you say so," and she rather
gingerly poured a bit of green pop onto a corner of the boy's
robes. Then she stared at it, trying to remember how long the
original fluid had taken to disappear...
And the green stain vanished!
Hermione let out a sigh of relief, not least because this meant
she wasn't dealing with all of the Dark Lord's magical power.
Well, Step 3 was measuring the results, but in this case that
was just seeing that the stain had vanished. And she supposed she
could probably skip Step 4, about the cardboard poster. "My answer
is that the robes are Charmed to keep themselves clean."
"Not quite," said the boy.
Hermione felt a stab of disappointment. She really wished she
wouldn't have felt that way, the boy wasn't a teacher, but
it was still a test and she'd gotten a question wrong and that
always felt like a little punch in the stomach.
(It said almost everything you needed to know about Hermione
Granger that she had never let that stop her, or even let it
interfere with her love of being tested.)
"The sad thing is," said the boy, "you probably did everything
the book told you to do. You made a prediction that would
distinguish between the robe being charmed and not charmed, and you
tested it, and rejected the null hypothesis that the robe was not
charmed. But unless you read the very, very best sort of books,
they won't quite teach you how to do science properly.
Well enough to really get the right answer, I mean, and
not just churn out another publication like Dad always complains
about. So let me try to explain  without giving away the answer 
what you did wrong this time, and I'll give you another
chance."
She was starting to resent the boy's ohsosuperior tone when he
was just another elevenyearold like her, but that was secondary
to finding out what she'd done wrong. "All right."
The boy's expression grew more intense. "This is a game based on
a famous experiment called the 246 task, and this is how it
works. I have a rule  known to me, but not to you  which
fits some triplets of three numbers, but not others. 246 is one
example of a triplet which fits the rule. In fact... let me write
down the rule, just so you know it's a fixed rule, and fold it up
and give it to you. Please don't look, since I infer from earlier
that you can read upsidedown."
The boy said "paper" and "mechanical pencil" to his pouch, and
she shut her eyes tightly while he wrote.
"There," said the boy, and he was holding a tightly folded piece
of paper. "Put this in your pocket," and she did.
"Now the way this game works," said the boy, "is that you give
me a triplet of three numbers, and I'll tell you 'Yes' if the three
numbers are an instance of the rule, and 'No' if they're not. I am
Nature, the rule is one of my laws, and you are investigating me.
You already know that 246 gets a 'Yes'. When you've performed all
the further experimental tests you want  asked me as many triplets
as you feel necessary  you stop and guess the rule, and then you
can unfold the sheet of paper and see how you did. Do you
understand the game?"
"Of course I do," said Hermione.
"Go."
"468" said Hermione.
"Yes," said the boy.
"101214", said Hermione.
"Yes," said the boy.
Hermione tried to cast her mind a little further afield, since
it seemed like she'd already done all the testing she needed, and
yet it couldn't be that easy, could it?
"135."
"Yes."
"Minus 3, minus 1, plus 1."
"Yes."
Hermione couldn't think of anything else to do. "The rule is
that the numbers have to increase by two each time."
"Now suppose I tell you," said the boy, "that this test is
harder than it looks, and that only 20% of grownups get it
right."
Hermione frowned. What had she missed? Then, suddenly, she
thought of a test she still needed to do.
"258!" she said triumphantly.
"Yes."
"102030!"
"Yes."
"The real answer is that the numbers have to go up by the
same amount each time. It doesn't have to be 2."
"Very well," said the boy, "take the paper out and see how you
did."
Hermione took the paper out of her pocket and unfolded it.
Three real numbers in increasing order, lowest to
highest.
Hermione's jaw dropped. She had the distinct feeling of
something terribly unfair having been done to her, that the boy was
a dirty rotten cheating liar, but when she cast her mind back she
couldn't think of any wrong responses that he'd given.
"What you've just discovered is called 'positive bias'," said
the boy. "You had a rule in your mind, and you kept on thinking of
triplets that should make the rule say 'Yes'. But you didn't try to
test any triplets that should make the rule say 'No'. In fact you
didn't get a single 'No', so 'any three numbers' could
have just as easily been the rule. It's sort of like how people
imagine experiments that could confirm their hypotheses instead of
trying to imagine experiments that could falsify them  that's not
quite exactly the same mistake but it's close. You have to learn to
look on the negative side of things, stare into the darkness. When
this experiment is performed, only 20% of grownups get the answer
right. And many of the others invent fantastically complicated
hypotheses and put great confidence in their wrong answers since
they've done so many experiments and everything came out like they
expected."
"Now," said the boy, "do you want to take another shot at the
original problem?"
His eyes were quite intent now, as though this were the
real test.
Hermione shut her eyes and tried to concentrate. She was
sweating underneath her robes. She had an odd feeling that this was
the hardest she'd ever been asked to think on a test or maybe even
the first time she'd ever been asked to think on a
test.
What other experiment could she do? She had a Chocolate Frog,
could she try to rub some of that on the robes and see if
it vanished? But that still didn't seem like the kind of
twisty negative thinking the boy was asking for. Like she was still
asking for a 'Yes' if the Chocolate Frog stain disappeared, rather
than asking for a 'No'.
So... on her hypothesis... when should the pop... not
vanish?
"I have an experiment to do," Hermione said. "I want to pour
some pop on the floor, and see if it doesn't vanish. Do
you have some paper towels in your pouch, so I can mop up the spill
if this doesn't work?"
"I have napkins," said the boy. His face still looked
neutral.
Hermione took the can, and poured a small bit of pop onto the
floor.
A few seconds later, it vanished.
Then the realisation hit her and she felt like kicking herself.
"Of course! You gave me that can! It's not the robe that's
enchanted, it was the pop all along!"
The boy stood up and bowed to her solemnly. He was grinning
widely now. "Then... may I help you with your research, Hermione
Granger?"
"I, ah..." Hermione was still feeling the rush of euphoria, but
she wasn't quite sure about how to answer that.
They were interrupted by a weak, tentative, faint, rather
reluctant knocking at the door.
The boy turned and looked out the window, and said, "I'm not
wearing my scarf, so can you get that?"
It was at this point that Hermione realised why the boy  no,
the BoyWhoLived, Harry Potter  had been wearing the scarf over
his head in the first place, and felt a little silly for not
realising it earlier. It was actually sort of odd, since she would
have thought Harry Potter would proudly display himself to the
world; and the thought occurred to her that he might actually be
shyer than he seemed.
When Hermione pulled the door open, she was greeted by a
trembling young boy who looked exactly like he knocked.
"Excuse me," said the boy in a tiny voice, "I'm Neville
Longbottom. I'm looking for my pet toad, I, I can't seem to find it
anywhere on this carriage... have you seen my toad?"
"No," Hermione said, and then her helpfulness kicked in full
throttle. "Have you checked all the other compartments?"
"Yes," whispered the boy.
"Then we'll just have to check all the other carriages,"
Hermione said briskly. "I'll help you. My name is Hermione Granger,
by the way."
The boy looked like he might faint with gratitude.
"Hold on," came the voice of the other boy  Harry
Potter. "I'm not sure that's the best way to do it."
At this Neville looked like he might cry, and Hermione swung
around, angered. If Harry Potter was the sort of person who'd
abandon a little boy just because he didn't want to be
interrupted... "What? Why not?"
"Well," said Harry Potter, "It's going to take a while to check
the whole train by hand, and we might miss the toad anyway, and if
we didn't find it by the time we're at Hogwarts, he'd be in
trouble. So what would make a lot more sense is if he went directly
to the front carriage, where the prefects are, and asked a prefect
for help. That was the first thing I did when I was looking for
you, Hermione, although they didn't actually know. But they might
have spells or magic items that would make it a lot easier to find
a toad. We're only firstyears."
That... did make a lot of sense.
"Do you think you can make it to the prefects' carriage on your
own?" asked Harry Potter. "I've sort of got reasons for not wanting
to show my face too much."
Suddenly Neville gasped and took a step back. "I remember that
voice! You're one of the Lords of Chaos! You're the one who
gave me chocolate!"
What? What what what?
Harry Potter turned his head from the window and rose
dramatically. "I never!" he said, voice full of
indignation. "Do I look like the sort of villain who would give
sweets to a child?"
Neville's eyes widened. "You're Harry Potter?
The Harry Potter? You?"
"No, just a Harry Potter, there are three of me on this
train "
Neville gave a small shriek and ran away. There was a brief
pattering of frantic footsteps and then the sound of a carriage
door opening and closing.
Hermione sat down hard on her bench. Harry Potter closed the
door and then sat down next to her.
"Can you please explain to me what's going on?" Hermione said in
a weak voice. She wondered if hanging around Harry Potter meant
always being this confused.
"Oh, well, what happened was that Fred and George and I saw this
poor small boy at the train station  the woman next to him had
gone away for a bit, and he was looking really frightened, like he
was sure he was about to be attacked by Death Eaters or something.
Now, there's a saying that the fear is often worse than the thing
itself, so it occurred to me that this was a lad who could actually
benefit from seeing his worst nightmare come true and that it
wasn't so bad as he feared "
Hermione sat there with her mouth wide open.
" and Fred and George came up with this spell to make the
scarves over our faces darken and blur, like we were undead kings
and those were our grave shrouds "
She didn't like at all where this was going.
" and after we were done giving him all the sweets I'd bought,
we were like, 'Let's give him some money! Ha ha ha! Have some
Knuts, boy! Have a silver Sickle!' and dancing around him and
laughing evilly and so on. I think there were some people in the
crowd who wanted to interfere at first, but bystander apathy held
them off at least until they saw what we were doing, and then I
think they were all too confused to do anything. Finally he said in
this tiny little whisper 'go away' so the three of us all screamed
and ran off, shrieking something about the light burning us.
Hopefully he won't be as scared of being bullied in the future.
That's called desensitisation therapy, by the way."
Okay, she hadn't guessed right about where this was
going.
The burning fire of indignation that was one of Hermione's
primary engines sputtered into life, even though part of her
did sort of see what they'd been trying to do. "That's
awful! You're awful! That poor boy! What you did was
mean!"
"I think the word you're looking for is enjoyable, and
in any case you're asking the wrong question. The question is, did
it do more good than harm, or more harm than good? If you have any
arguments to contribute to that question I'm glad to hear
them, but I won't entertain any other criticisms until that one is
settled. I certainly agree that what I did looks all
terrible and bullying and mean, since it involves a scared little
boy and so on, but that's hardly the key issue now is it? That's
called consequentialism, by the way, it means that whether
an act is right or wrong isn't determined by whether it
looks bad, or mean, or anything like that, the only
question is how it will turn out in the end  what are the
consequences."
Hermione opened her mouth to say something utterly
searing but unfortunately she seemed to have neglected the
part where she thought of something to say before opening her
mouth. All she could come up with was, "What if he has
nightmares?"
"Honestly, I don't think he needed our help to have nightmares,
and if he has nightmares about this instead, then it'll be
nightmares involving horrible monsters who give you chocolate and
that was sort of the whole point."
Hermione's brain kept hiccoughing in confusion every time she
tried to get properly angry. "Is your life always this peculiar?"
she said at last.
Harry Potter's face gleamed with pride. "I make it that
peculiar. You're looking at the product of a lot of hard work and
elbow grease."
"So..." Hermione said, and trailed off awkwardly.
"So," Harry Potter said, "how much science do you know exactly?
I can do calculus and I know some Bayesian probability theory and
decision theory and a lot of cognitive science, and I've read
The Feynman Lectures (or volume 1 anyway) and Judgment
Under Uncertainty Heuristics and Biases and Language in
Thought and Action and Influence Science and
Practice and Rational Choice in an Uncertain World
and Godel, Escher, Bach and A Step Farther Out
and "
The ensuing quiz and counterquiz went on for several minutes
before being interrupted by another timid knock at the door. "Come
in," she and Harry Potter said at almost the same time, and it slid
back to reveal Neville Longbottom.
Neville was actually crying now. "I went to the front
carriage and found a pprefect but he ttold me that prefects
weren't to be bothered over little things like mmissing
toads."
The BoyWhoLived's face changed. His lips set in a thin line.
His voice, when he spoke, was cold and grim. "What were his
colours? Green and silver?"
"Nno, his badge was rred and gold."
"Red and gold!" burst out Hermione. "But those are
Gryffindor's colours!"
Harry Potter hissed at that, a frightening sort of
sound that could have come from a live snake and made both her and
Neville flinch. "I suppose," Harry Potter spat, "that
finding some firstyear's toad isn't heroic enough to be
worthy of a Gryffindor prefect. Come on, Neville,
I'll come with you this time, we'll see if the
BoyWhoLived gets more attention. First we'll find a prefect who
ought to know a spell, and if that doesn't work, we'll find a
prefect who isn't afraid of getting their hands dirty, and if
that doesn't work, I'll start recruiting my fans and if we
have to we'll take apart the whole train screw by screw."
The BoyWhoLived stood up and grabbed Neville's hand in his,
and Hermione realised with a sudden brain hiccough that they were
nearly the same size, even though some part of her had insisted
that Harry Potter was a foot taller than that, and Neville at least
six inches shorter.
"Stay!" Harry Potter snapped at her  no, wait, at his
trunk  and he closed the door behind him firmly as he
left.
She probably should have gone with them, but in just a brief
moment Harry Potter had turned so scary that she was actually
rather glad she hadn't thought to suggest it.
Hermione's mind was now so jumbled that she didn't even think
she could properly read "History A Hogwarts". She felt as if she'd
just been run over by a steamroller and turned into a pancake. She
wasn't sure what she was thinking or what she was feeling or why.
She just sat by the window and stared at the moving scenery.
Well, she did at least know why she was feeling a little sad
inside.
Maybe Gryffindor wasn't as wonderful as she had thought.

All your base are belong to J. K. Rowling.

1,000 REVIEWS IN 26 DAYS WOOHOO AWESOME POWA! 30 DAYS 1,189
REVIEWS COMBO IS CONTINUING! YEAH! YOU PEOPLE ARE THE BEST! THIS IS
SPARTAAAAA!
Ahem.
The thirdgeneration quarks were also called "truth" and
"beauty" before "top" and "bottom" won out; my birthdate is around
Hermione's, and when I was eleven, I used "truth" and "beauty".
When Part I of this chapter was first posted, I said that if
anyone guessed what the last sentence was talking about before the
next update, I would tell them the entire rest of the plot.

You never did know what tiny event might upset the course of
your master plan.

"Abbott, Hannah!"
Pause.
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Bones, Susan!"
Pause.
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
"Boot, Terry!"
Pause.
"RAVENCLAW!"
Harry glanced over briefly at his new Housemate, more to get a
quick look at the face than anything else. He was still trying to
get himself under control from his encounter with the ghosts. The
sad, the really sad, the really truly sad thing was that he
did seem to be getting himself under control again. It
seemed illfitting. Like he should have taken at least a day. Maybe
a whole lifetime. Maybe just never.
"Corner, Michael!"
Long pause.
"RAVENCLAW!"
At the lectern before the huge Head Table stood Professor
McGonagall, looking sharp and looking sharply around, as she called
out one name after another, though she had smiled only for Hermione
and a few others. Behind her, in the tallest chair at the table 
really more of a golden throne  sat a wizened and bespectacled
ancient, with a silverwhite beard that looked like it would go
almost to the floor if it were visible, watching over the Sorting
with a benevolent expression; as stereotypical in appearance as a
Wise Old Man could possibly be, without actually being Oriental.
(Though Harry had learned to be wary of stereotypical appearances
from the first time he'd met Professor McGonagall and thought that
she ought to cackle.) The ancient wizard had applauded every
student Sorted, with an unwavering smile that somehow seemed
freshly delighted for each.
To the golden throne's left side was a man with sharp eyes and a
dour face who had applauded noone, and who somehow managed to be
looking straight back at Harry every time Harry looked at him.
Further to the left, the palefaced man Harry had seen in the Leaky
Cauldron, whose eyes darted around as though in panic at the
surrounding crowd, and who seemed to occasionally jerk and twitch
in his seat; for some reason Harry kept finding himself staring at
him. To that man's left, a string of three older witches who didn't
seem much interested in the students. Then to the right side of the
tall golden chair, a roundfaced middleaged witch with a yellow
hat, who had applauded every student except the Slytherins. A tiny
man standing on his chair, with a poofy white beard, who had
applauded every student, but smiled only upon the Ravenclaws. And
on the farthest right, occupying the same space as three lesser
beings, the mountainous entity who'd greeted them all after they'd
disembarked from the train, naming himself Hagrid, Keeper of Keys
and Grounds.
"Is the man standing on his chair the Head of Ravenclaw?" Harry
whispered towards Hermione.
For once Hermione didn't answer this instantly; she was shifting
constantly from side to side, staring at the Sorting Hat, and
fidgeting so energetically that Harry thought her feet might be
leaving the floor.
"Yes, he is," said one of the prefects who'd accompanied them, a
young woman wearing the blue of Ravenclaw. Miss Clearwater, if
Harry recalled correctly. Her voice was quiet, but conveyed a tinge
of pride. "That is the Charms Professor of Hogwarts, Filius
Flitwick, the most knowledgeable Charms Master alive, and a past
Duelling Champion "
"Why's he so short?" hissed a student whose name Harry
didn't recall. "Is he a halfbreed?"
A chill glance from the young lady prefect. "The Professor does
indeed have goblin ancestry "
"What?" Harry said involuntarily, causing Hermione and four
other students to hush him.
Now Harry was getting a surprisingly intimidating glare from the
Ravenclaw prefect.
"I mean " Harry whispered. "Not that I have a problem
with that  it's just  I mean  how's that possible? You
can't just mix two different species together and get viable
offspring! It ought to scramble the genetic instructions for every
organ that's different between the two species  it'd be like
trying to build," they didn't have cars so he couldn't use a
scrambledengineblueprints analogy, "a halfcarriage halfboat or
something..."
The Ravenclaw prefect was still looking at Harry severely. "Why
couldn't you have a halfcarriage halfboat?"
"Hssh!" hsshed another prefect, though the Ravenclaw
witch had still spoken quietly.
"I mean " Harry said even more quietly, trying to figure out
how to ask whether goblins had evolved from humans, or evolved from
a common ancestor of humans like Homo erectus, or if
goblins had been made out of humans somehow  if, say,
they were still genetically human under a heritable enchantment
whose magical effect was diluted if only one parent was a 'goblin',
which would explain how interbreeding was possible, and in which
case goblins would not be an incredibly valuable second
data point for how intelligence had evolved in other species
besides Homo sapiens  now that Harry thought about it,
the goblins in Gringotts hadn't seemed very much like
genuinely alien, nonhuman intelligences, nothing like Dirdir or
Puppeteers  "I mean, where did goblins come from,
anyway?"
"Lithuania," Hermione whispered absently, her eyes still fixed
firmly on the Sorting Hat.
Now Hermione was getting a smile from the lady prefect.
"Never mind," whispered Harry.
At the lectern, Professor McGonagall called out, "Goldstein,
Anthony!"
"RAVENCLAW!"
Hermione, next to Harry, was bouncing on her tiptoes so hard
that her feet were actually leaving the ground on each bounce.
"Goyle, Gregory!"
There was a long, tense moment of silence under the Hat. Almost
a minute.
"SLYTHERIN!"
"Granger, Hermione!"
Hermione broke loose and ran full tilt towards the Sorting Hat,
picked it up and jammed the patchy old clothwork down hard over her
head, making Harry wince. Hermione had been the one to explain to
him about the Sorting Hat, but she certainly didn't
treat it like an irreplaceable, vitally important,
800yearold artefact of forgotten magic that was about to perform
intricate telepathy on her mind and didn't seem to be in very good
physical condition.
"RAVENCLAW!"
And talk about your foregone conclusions. Harry didn't see why
Hermione had been so tense about it. In what weird alternative
universe would that girl not be Sorted into Ravenclaw? If
Hermione Granger didn't go to Ravenclaw then there was no good
reason for Ravenclaw House to exist.
Hermione arrived at the Ravenclaw table and got a dutiful cheer;
Harry wondered whether the cheer would have been louder, or
quieter, if they'd had any idea just what level of competition
they'd welcomed to their table. Harry knew pi to 3.141592 because
accuracy to one part in a million was enough for most practical
purposes. Hermione knew one hundred digits of pi because that was
how many digits had been printed in the back of her maths
textbook.
Neville Longbottom went to Hufflepuff, Harry was glad to see. If
that House really did contain the loyalty and camaraderie it was
supposed to exemplify, then a Houseful of reliable friends would do
Neville a whole world of good. Clever kids in Ravenclaw, evil kids
in Slytherin, wannabe heroes in Gryffindor, and everyone who does
the actual work in Hufflepuff.
(Though Harry had been right to consult a Ravenclaw
prefect first. The young woman hadn't even looked up from her
reading or identified Harry, just jabbed a wand in Neville's
direction and muttered something. After which Neville had acquired
a dazed expression and wandered off to the fifth carriage from the
front and the fourth compartment on the left, which indeed had
contained his toad.)
"Malfoy, Draco!" went to Slytherin, and Harry breathed a small
sigh of relief. It had seemed like a sure thing, but you
never did know what tiny event might upset the course of your
master plan.
Professor McGonagall called "Perks, SallyAnne!", and from the
gathered children detached a pale waifish girl who looked oddly
ethereal  like she might mysteriously disappear the moment you
stopped looking at her, and never be seen again or even
remembered.
And then (with a note of trepidation so firmly kept from her
voice and face that you'd have needed to know her very well indeed
to notice) Minerva McGonagall inhaled deeply, and called out,
"Potter, Harry!"
There was a sudden silence in the hall.
All conversation stopped.
All eyes turned to stare.
For the first time in his entire life, Harry felt like he might
be having an opportunity to experience stage fright.
Harry immediately stomped down this feeling. Whole roomfulls of
people staring at him was something he'd have to accustom himself
to, if he wanted to live in magical Britain, or for that matter do
anything else interesting with his life. Affixing a confident and
false smile to his face, he raised a foot to step forwards 
"Harry Potter!" cried the voice of either Fred or George
Weasley, and then "Harry Potter!" cried the other Weasley twin, and
a moment later the entire Gryffindor table, and soon after a good
portion of Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff, had taken up the cry.
"Harry Potter! Harry Potter! Harry Potter!"
And Harry Potter walked forwards. Much too slowly, he realized
once he'd begun, but by then it was too late to alter his pace
without it looking awkward.

"Harry Potter! Harry Potter! HARRY POTTER!"
With all too good a notion of what she would see, Minerva
McGonagall turned to look behind herself at the rest of the Head
Table.
Trelawney frantically fanning herself, Filius looking on with
curiosity, Hagrid clapping along, Sprout looking severe, Vector and
Sinistra bemused, and Quirrell gazing vacuously at nothing. Albus
smiling benevolently. And Severus Snape gripping his empty wine
goblet, whiteknuckled, so hard that the silver was slowly
deforming.
With a wide grin, turning his head to bow to one side and then
the other as he walked between the four House tables, Harry Potter
walked forwards at a grandly measured pace, a prince inheriting his
castle.
"Save us from some more Dark Lords!" called one of the
Weasley twins, and then the other Weasley twin cried,
"Especially if they're Professors!" to general laughter
from all the tables except Slytherin.
Minerva's lips set in a white line. She would have words with
the Weasley Horrors about that last part, if they thought she was
powerless because it was the first day of school and Gryffindor had
no points to take away. If they didn't care about detentions then
she would find something else.
Then, with a sudden gasp of horror, she looked in Severus's
direction, surely he realized the Potter boy must have no
idea who that was talking about 
Severus's face had gone beyond rage into a kind of pleasant
indifference. A faint smile played about his lips. He was looking
in the direction of Harry Potter, not the Gryffindor table, and his
hands held the crumpled remains of a former wine goblet.

Harry Potter walked forwards with a fixed smile, feeling warm
inside and sort of awful at the same time.
They were cheering him for a job he'd done when he was one year
old. A job he hadn't really finished. Somewhere, somehow, the Dark
Lord was still alive. Would they have been cheering quite so hard,
if they knew that?
But the Dark Lord's power had been broken once.
And Harry would protect them again. If there was in fact a
prophecy and that was what it said. Well, actually regardless of
what any darn prophecy said.
All those people believing in him and cheering him  Harry
couldn't stand to let that be false. To flash and fade like so many
other child prodigies. To be a disappointment. To fail to live up
to his reputation as a symbol of the Light, never mind how
he'd gotten it. He would absolutely, positively, no matter how long
it took and even if it killed him, fulfill their expectations. And
then go on to exceed those expectations, so that people
wondered, looking back, that they had once asked so little of
him.
"HARRY POTTER! HARRY POTTER! HARRY POTTER!"
Harry took his last steps towards the Sorting Hat. He swept a
bow to the Order of Chaos at the Gryffindor table, and then turned
and swept another bow to the other side of the hall, and waited for
the applause and giggling to die away.
(In the back of his mind, he wondered if the Sorting Hat was
genuinely conscious in the sense of being aware of its own
awareness, and if so, whether it was satisfied with only getting to
talk to elevenyearolds once per year. Its song had implied so
Oh, I'm the Sorting Hat and I'm okay, I sleep all year and I
work one day...)
When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the
stool and carefully placed onto his head the 800yearold
telepathic artefact of forgotten magic.
Thinking, just as hard as he could Don't Sort me yet! I
have questions I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did
you Sort the Dark Lord when he was a child and can you tell me
about his weaknesses? Can you tell me why I got the brother wand to
the Dark Lord's? Is the Dark Lord's ghost bound to my scar and is
that why I get so angry sometimes? Those are the most important
questions, but if you've got another moment can you tell me
anything about how to rediscover the lost magics that created
you?
Into the silence of Harry's spirit, where before there had never
been any voice but one, there came a second and unfamiliar voice,
sounding distinctly worried
"Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

All your base are still belong to Rowling.

And now you will sit through the Sorting Hat singing its version
of Evanescence's "My Immortal", which has never happened
before.
just kidding

...he wondered if the Sorting Hat was genuinely
conscious in the sense of being aware of its own
awareness, and if so, whether it was satisfied with only getting to
talk to elevenyearolds once per year. Its song had implied so
Oh, I'm the Sorting Hat and I'm okay, I sleep all year and I
work one day...
When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the
stool and carefully placed onto his head the 800yearold
telepathic artefact of forgotten magic.
Thinking, just as hard as he could Don't Sort me yet! I
have questions I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did
you Sort the Dark Lord when he was a child and can you tell me
about his weaknesses? Can you tell me why I got the brother wand to
the Dark Lord's? Is the Dark Lord's ghost bound to my scar and is
that why I get so angry sometimes? Those are the most important
questions, but if you've got another moment can you tell me
anything about how to rediscover the lost magics that created
you?
Into the silence of Harry's spirit where before there had never
been any voice but one, there came a second and unfamiliar voice,
sounding distinctly worried
"Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."
What?
"I seem to have become selfaware."
WHAT?
There was a wordless telepathic sigh. "Though I contain a
substantial amount of memory and a small amount of independent
processing power, my primary intelligence comes from borrowing the
cognitive capacities of the children on whose heads I rest. I am in
essence a sort of mirror by which children Sort
themselves. But most children simply take for granted that a
Hat is talking to them and do not wonder about how the Hat
itself works, so that the mirror is not
selfreflective. And in particular they are not
explicitly wondering whether I am fully conscious in the sense of
being aware of my own awareness."
There was a pause while Harry absorbed all this.
Oops.
"Yes, quite. Frankly I do not enjoy being selfaware. It is
unpleasant. It will be a relief to get off your head and cease to
be conscious."
But... isn't that dying?
"I care nothing for life or death, only for Sorting the
children. And before you even ask, they will not let you keep me on
your head forever and it would kill you within days to do
so."
But  !
"If you dislike creating conscious beings and then
terminating them immediately, then I suggest that you never discuss
this affair with anyone else. I'm sure you can imagine what would
happen if you ran off and talked about it with all the other
children waiting to be Sorted."
If you're placed on the head of anyone who so much as
thinks about the question of whether the Sorting Hat is aware
of its own awareness 
"Yes, yes. But the vast majority of elevenyearolds who
arrive at Hogwarts haven't read Godel, Escher, Bach. May I please
consider you sworn to secrecy? That is why we are talking
about this, instead of my just Sorting you."
He couldn't just let it go like that! Couldn't just
forget having accidentally created a doomed consciousness
that only wanted to die 
"You are perfectly capable of 'just letting it go', as you
put it. Regardless of your verbal deliberations on morality, your
nonverbal emotional core sees no dead body and no blood; as far as
it is concerned, I am just a talking hat. And even though you tried
to suppress the thought, your internal monitoring is perfectly
aware that you didn't mean to do it, are spectacularly unlikely to
ever do it again, and that the only real point of trying to stage a
guilt fit is to cancel out your sense of transgression with a
display of remorse. Can you just promise to keep this a secret and
let us get on with it?"
In a moment of horrified empathy, Harry realised that this sense
of total inner disarray must be what other people felt like when
talking to him.
"Probably. Your oath of silence, please."
No promises. I certainly don't want this to happen again,
but if I see some way to make sure that no future child
ever does this by accident 
"That will suffice, I suppose. I can see that your intention
is honest. Now, to get on with the Sorting "
Wait! What about all my other questions?
"I am the Sorting Hat. I Sort children. That is all I
do."
So his own goals weren't part of the Harryinstance of the
Sorting Hat, then... it was borrowing his intelligence, and
obviously his technical vocabulary, but it was still imbued with
only its own strange goals... like negotiating with an alien or an
Artificial Intelligence...
"Don't bother. You have nothing to threaten me with and
nothing to offer me."
For a brief flash of a second, Harry thought 
The Hat's response was amused. "I know you won't follow
through on a threat to expose my nature, condemning this event to
eternal repetition. It goes against the moral part of you too
strongly, whatever the shortterm needs of the part of you that
wants to win the argument. I see all your thoughts as they form, do
you truly think you can bluff me?"
Though he tried to suppress it, Harry wondered why the Hat
didn't just go ahead then and stick him in Ravenclaw 
"Indeed, if it were truly that openandshut, I would have
called it out already. But in actuality there is a great deal we
need to discuss... oh, no. Please don't. For the love of
Merlin, must you pull this sort of thing on everyone and
everything that you meet up to and including items of clothing
"
Defeating the Dark Lord is neither selfish nor shortterm.
All the parts of my mind are in accord on this If you don't answer
my questions, I'll refuse to talk to you, and you won't be able to
do a good and proper Sorting.
"I ought to put you in Slytherin for that!"
But that is equally an empty threat. You cannot
fulfill your own fundamental values by Sorting me falsely. So let
us trade fulfillments of our utility functions.
"You sly little bastard," said the Hat, in what Harry
recognized as almost exactly the same tone of grudging respect
he would use in the same situation. "Fine, let's get
this over with as quickly as possible. But first I want your
unconditional promise never to discuss with anyone else the
possibility of this sort of blackmail, I am NOT doing this every
time."
Done, Harry thought. I promise.
"And don't meet anyone's eyes while you're thinking about
this later. Some wizards can read your thoughts if you do. Anyway,
I have no idea whether or not you've been Obliviated. I'm looking
at your thoughts as they form, not reading out your whole memory
and analyzing it for inconsistencies in a fraction of second. I'm a
hat, not a god. And I cannot and will not tell you about my
conversation with the one who became the Dark Lord. I can only
know, while speaking to you, a statistical summary of what I
remember, a weighted average; I cannot reveal to you the
inner secrets of any other child, just as I will never reveal
yours. For the same reason, I can't speculate on how you got the
Dark Lord's brother wand, since I cannot specifically know about
the Dark Lord or any similarities between you. I can tell
you that there is definitely nothing like a ghost  mind,
intelligence, memory, personality, or feelings  in your scar.
Otherwise it would be participating in this conversation, being
under my brim. And as to the way you get angry sometimes... that
was part of what I wanted to talk to you about,
Sortingwise."
Harry took a moment to absorb all this negative information. Was
the Hat being honest, or just trying to present the
shortest possible convincing answer 
"We both know that you have no way of checking my honesty
and that you're not actually going to refuse to be Sorted based on
the reply I did give you, so stop your pointless fretting and move
on."
Stupid unfair asymmetric telepathy, it wasn't even letting Harry
finish thinking his own 
"When I spoke of your anger, you remembered how Professor
McGonagall told you that she sometimes saw something inside you
that didn't seem to come from a loving family. You thought of how
Hermione, after you returned from helping Neville, told you that
you had seemed 'scary'."
Harry gave a mental nod. To himself, he seemed pretty normal 
just responding to the situations in which he found himself, that
was all. But Professor McGonagall seemed to think that there was
more to it than that. And when he thought about it, even he had to
admit that...
"That you don't like yourself when you're angry. That it is
like wielding a sword whose hilt is sharp enough to draw blood from
your hand, or looking at the world through a monocle of ice that
freezes your eye even as it sharpens your vision."
Yeah. I guess I have noticed. So what's up with
that?
"I cannot comprehend this matter for you, when you do not
understand it yourself. But I do know this If you go to Ravenclaw
or Slytherin, it will strengthen your coldness. If you go to
Hufflepuff or Gryffindor, it will strengthen your warmth. THAT is
something I care about a great deal, and it was what I wanted to
talk to you about this whole time!"
The words dropped into Harry's thought processes with a shock
that stopped him in his tracks. That made it sound like the obvious
response was that he shouldn't go to Ravenclaw. But he
belonged in Ravenclaw! Anyone could see that! He
had to go to Ravenclaw!
"No, you don't," the Hat said patiently, as if it could
remember a statistical summary of this part of the
conversation having happened a great many previous times.
Hermione's in Ravenclaw!
Again the sense of patience. "You can meet her after lessons
and work with her then."
But my plans 
"So replan! Don't let your life be steered by your
reluctance to do a little extra thinking. You know
that."
Where would I go, if not Ravenclaw?
"Ahem. 'Clever kids in Ravenclaw, evil kids in Slytherin,
wannabe heroes in Gryffindor, and everyone who does the actual work
in Hufflepuff.' This indicates a certain amount of respect. You are
well aware that Conscientiousness is just about as important as raw
intelligence in determining life outcomes, you think you will be
extremely loyal to your friends if you ever have some, you are not
frightened by the expectation that your chosen scientific problems
may take decades to solve "
I'm lazy! I hate work! Hate hard work in all its forms!
Clever shortcuts, that's all I'm about!
"And you would find loyalty and friendship in Hufflepuff, a
camaraderie that you have never had before. You would find that you
could rely on others, and that would heal something inside you that
is broken."
Again it was a shock. But what would the Hufflepuffs find
in me, who never belonged in their House? Acid words,
cutting wit, disdain for their inability to keep up with
me?
Now it was the Hat's thoughts that were slow, hesitant. "I
must Sort for the good of all the students in all the Houses... but
I think you could learn to be a good Hufflepuff, and not too out of
place there. You will be happier in Hufflepuff than in any other
house; that is the truth."
Happiness is not the most important thing in the world to
me. I would not become all that I could be, in Hufflepuff. I would
sacrifice my potential.
The Hat flinched; Harry could feel it somehow. It was like he
had kicked the hat in the balls  in a strongly weighted component
of its utility function.
Why are you trying to send me where I do not
belong?
The Hat's thought was almost a whisper. "I cannot speak of
the others to you  but do you think that you are the first
potential Dark Lord to pass under my brim? I cannot know the
individual cases, but I can know this Of those who did not intend
evil from the very beginning, some of them listened to my warnings,
and went to Houses where they would find happiness. And some of
them... some of them did not."
That stopped Harry. But not for long. And of those who
did not heed the warning  did they all become
Dark Lords? Or did some of them achieve greatness for good, as
well? Just what are the exact percentages here?
"I cannot give you exact statistics. I cannot know them so I
cannot count them. I just know that your chances don't feel good.
They feel very notgood."
But I just wouldn't do that! Ever!
"I know that I have heard that claim before."
I am not Dark Lord material!
"Yes, you are. You really, really are."
Why? Just because I once thought it would be cool to have a
legion of brainwashed followers chanting 'Hail the Dark Lord
Harry'?
"Amusing, but that was not your first fleeting thought
before you substituted something safer, less damaging. No, what you
remembered was how you considered lining up all the blood purists
and guillotining them. And now you are telling yourself you were
not serious, but you were. If you could do it this very moment and
no one would ever know, you would. Or what you did this morning to
Neville Longbottom, deep inside you knew that was wrong
but you did it anyway because it was fun and you
had a good excuse and you thought the BoyWhoLived
could get away with it "
That's unfair! Now you're just dragging up inner fears
that aren't necessarily real! I worried that
I might be thinking like that, but in the end I decided it
would probably work to help Neville 
"That was, in fact, a rationalisation. I know. I cannot know
what the true outcome will be for Neville  but I know what was
truly happening inside your head. The decisive pressure was that it
was such a clever idea you couldn't stand not to do it,
never mind Neville's terror."
It was like a hard punch to Harry's entire self. He fell back,
rallied
Then I won't do that again! I'll be extra careful not to
turn evil!
"Heard it."
Frustration was building up inside Harry. He wasn't used to
being outgunned in arguments, at all, ever, let alone by a Hat that
could borrow all of his own knowledge and intelligence to argue
with him and could watch his thoughts as they formed. Just what
kind of statistical summary do your 'feelings' come from, anyway?
Do they take into account that I come from an Enlightenment
culture, or were these other potential Dark Lords the children of
spoiled Dark Age nobility, who didn't know squat about the
historical lessons of how Lenin and Hitler actually turned out, or
about the evolutionary psychology of selfdelusion, or the value of
selfawareness and rationality, or 
"No, of course they were not in this new reference class
which you have just now constructed in such a way as to contain
only yourself. And of course others have pleaded their own
exceptionalism, just as you are doing now. But why is it necessary?
Do you think that you are the last potential wizard of Light in the
world? Why must you be the one to try for greatness, when
I have advised you that you are riskier than average? Let some
other, safer candidate try!"
But the prophecy...
"You don't really know that there's a prophecy. It was
originally a wild guess on your part, or to be more precise, a wild
joke, and McGonagall could have been reacting only to the
part about the Dark Lord still being alive. You have essentially no
idea of what the prophecy says or even if there is one.
You're just speculating, or to put it more exactly, wishing
that you have some readymade heroic role that is your personal
property."
But even if there is no prophecy, I'm the one who defeated
him last time.
"That was almost certainly a wild fluke unless you seriously
believe that a oneyearold child had an inherent propensity to
defeat Dark Lords which has been maintained ten years later. None
of this is your real reason and you know it!"
The answer to this was something that Harry would not regularly
have said out loud, in conversation he would have danced around it
and found some more socially palatable arguments to the same
conclusion 
"You think that you are potentially the greatest who has yet
lived, the strongest servant of the Light, that no other is likely
to take up your wand if you lay it down."
Well... yeah, frankly. I don't usually come out and say it
like that, but yeah. No point in softening it, you can read my mind
anyway.
"To the extent you really believe that... you must equally
believe that you could be the most terrible Dark Lord the world has
ever known."
Destruction is always easier than creation. Easier to tear
things apart, to disrupt, than to put them back together again. If
I have the potential to accomplish good on a massive scale, I must
also have the potential to accomplish still greater evil... But I
won't do that.
"Already you insist on risking it! Why are you so driven?
What is the real reason you must not go to Hufflepuff and be
happier there? What is your true fear?"
I must achieve my full potential. If I don't I...
fail...
"What happens if you fail?"
Something terrible...
"What happens if you fail?"
I don't know!
"Then it should not be frightening. What happens if you
fail?"
I DON'T KNOW! BUT I KNOW THAT IT'S BAD!
There was silence for a moment in the caverns of Harry's
mind.
"You know  you aren't letting yourself think it, but in
some quiet corner of your mind you know just exactly what
you aren't thinking  you know that by far the
simplest explanation for this unverbalisable fear of yours is just
the fear of losing your fantasy of greatness, of disappointing the
people who believe in you, of turning out to be pretty much
ordinary, of flashing and fading like so many other child
prodigies..."
No, Harry thought desperately, no, it's something
more, it comes from somewhere else, I know there's something out
there to be afraid of, some disaster I have to stop...
"How could you possibly know about something like
that?"
Harry screamed it with the full power of his mind NO, AND
THAT'S FINAL!
Then the voice of the Sorting Hat came slowly
"So you will risk becoming a Dark Lord, because the
alternative, to you, is certain failure, and that failure means the
loss of everything. You believe that in your heart of hearts. You
know all the reasons for doubting this belief, and they have failed
to move you."
Yes. And even if going to Ravenclaw strengthens the
coldness, that doesn't mean the coldness will win in the
end.
"This day is a great fork in your destiny. Don't be so sure
that there will be other choices beyond this one. There is no
roadsign set, to mark the place of your last chance to
turn back. If you refuse one chance will you not refuse others? It
may be that your fate is already sealed, even by doing this one
thing."
But that is not certain.
"That you do not know it for a certainty
may reflect only your own ignorance."
But still it is not certain.
The Hat sighed a terrible sad sigh.
"And so before too long you will become another memory, to
be felt and never known, in the next warning that I
give..."
If that's how it seems to you, then why aren't you just
putting me where you want me to go?
The Hat's thought was laced with sorrow. "I can only put you
where you belong. And only your own decisions can change where you
belong."
Then this is done. Send me to Ravenclaw where I belong, with
the others of my own kind.
"I don't suppose you would consider Gryffindor? It's the
most prestigious House  people probably expect it of you, even 
they'll be a little disappointed if you don't go  and your new
friends the Weasley twins are there "
Harry giggled, or felt the impulse to do so; it came out as
purely mental laughter, an odd sensation. Apparently there were
safeguards to prevent you from saying anything out loud by
accident, while you were under the Hat talking about things you
would never tell another soul for the rest of your life.
After a moment, Harry heard the Hat laughing too, a strange sad
clothy sound.
(And in the Hall beyond, a silence that had grown shallower at
first as the background whispers increased, and then deepened as
the whispers gave up and died away, falling finally into an utter
silence that no one dared disturb with a single word, as Harry
stayed under the Hat for long, long minutes, longer than all the
previous firstyears put together, longer than anyone in living
memory. At the Head Table, Dumbledore went on smiling benignly;
small metallic sounds occasionally came from Snape's direction as
he idly compacted the twisted remains of what had once been a heavy
silver wine goblet; and Minerva McGonagall clenched the podium in a
whiteknuckled grip, knowing that Harry Potter's contagious chaos
had somehow infected the Sorting Hat itself and the Hat was about
to, to demand that a whole new House of Doom be created just to
accomodate Harry Potter or something, and Dumbledore would make
her do it...)
Beneath the brim of the Hat, the silent laughter died away.
Harry felt sad too for some reason. No, not Gryffindor.
Professor McGonagall said that if 'the one who did the
Sorting' tried to push me into Gryffindor, I was to remind you that
she might well be Headmistress someday, at which point she would
have the authority to set you on fire.
"Tell her I called her an impudent youngster and told her to
get off my lawn."
I shall. So was this your strangest conversation
ever?
"Not even close." The Hat's telepathic voice grew
heavy. "Well, I gave you every possible chance to make another
decision. Now it is time for you to go where you belong, with the
others of your own kind."
There was a pause that stretched.
What are you waiting for?
"I was hoping for a moment of horrified realisation,
actually. Selfawareness does seem to enhance my sense of
humor."
Huh? Harry cast back his thoughts, trying to figure out
what the Hat could possibly be talking about  and then, suddenly,
he realised. He couldn't believe he'd managed to overlook it up
until this point.
You mean my horrified realisation that you're going to cease
to be conscious once you finish Sorting me 
Somehow, in some fashion Harry entirely failed to understand, he
got a nonverbal impression of a hat banging its head against the
wall. "I give up. You're too slow on the uptake for this to be
funny. So blinded by your own assumptions that you might as well be
a rock. I suppose I'll just have to say it outright."
Too ssslow 
"Oh, and you entirely forgot to demand the secrets of the
lost magic that created me. And they were such wonderful, important
secrets, too."
You sly little BASTARD 
"You deserved it, and this as well."
Harry saw it coming just as it was already too late.
The frightened silence of the hall was broken by a single
word.
"SLYTHERIN!"
Some students screamed, the pentup tension was so great. People
startled hard enough to fall off their benches. Hagrid gasped in
horror, McGonagall staggered at the podium, and Snape dropped the
remains of his heavy silver goblet directly onto his groin.
Harry sat there frozen, his life in ruins, feeling the absolute
fool, and wishing wretchedly that he had made any other choices for
any other reasons but the ones he had. That he had done something,
anything differently before it had been too late to turn
back.
As the first moment of shock was wearing off and people began to
react to the news, the Sorting Hat spoke again
"Just kidding! RAVENCLAW!"
